,text,spans,data_type
0,"head state government,",0,test
1,"secretary-gener unit nations, antonio guterres,",0,test
2,ambassador volkan bozkir ,0,test
3,"secretari gener unit nations, mr. antonio guterr  excellencies,",0,train
4,"greet participants, hope sui generi meet one decis step search human world, intern peac security, environ fair balanc relationship nations.",0,train
5,"congratul mr. president, election. wish success term.",0,train
6,"appreci ambassador tijjani muhammad-bande’ success mandat difficult times. fellow countryman, emanuel tilman, opportun work office. experi gain work presid preciou life.",0,train
7,"topic chosen presid challenge. country, real commitment. behalf people, thank pay homag front line express condol lost love ones.",0,train
9,"prevent combat covid-19, govern work collabor world health organ  .",0,train
10,establish integr crisi manag center allow coordin work sector involv fight.,0,train
11,"also import support partner china, australia, cuba, unit state america european union, support human resourc donat equipment, need fight. timor-lest recorded, sinc march, 27 posit cases, 26 recovered. date, one gone intens care.",0,train
13,take opportun correct address structur weaknesses.,0,train
14,"may vaccin produc becom global public good. also, spirit collect solidar action, secretari general, dear friend antonio guterres’ respons plan covid-19, variou initi allevi burden debt financ develop worth mentioning. deepli convinc togeth genuin spirit solidarity, humankind overcom challenge.",0,train
17,"spirit one left behind, must pay attent least develop countri  ldc  and, moreover, vulnerable, fragil countri small island develop state  sid . post-conflict countri spirit solidarity, timor-lest basi establish coalit fragil states, known g7+, whose secretariat base dili.",0,train
19,"mr. president, ladi gentlemen,",0,train
22,"head state, develop countri program “a citizen, tree” progress implemented. citizen contribut well-b communities, presid republ awards, annually, sergio vieira de mello award. 2019, prize award civil societi organ reforest affect mangrov areas, order reduc plastic wast pollution, countri adopt recycl polici alreadi small unit process treat plastic bottl order produc relev applic materi  brick build hous chair domest use .",0,train
23,"indonesian invas occup result prolong conflict seem untractable. un’ engag relevant, becam success story. allow emphas fact process reconcili indonesia countri exampl good neighborhood cooperation, despit pain tragedi past.",0,train
24,full member unit nation eighteen  18  years.,0,train
25,"intern recogn sovereign state, give contribut shape updat need un. one distinguish citizens, former president, jose ramo horta, chair high-level panel peac operations. panel aim reinforc effect peac operations.",0,train
28,"histori languag tie us countri peopl make commun portugues speak countries, cplp. honor presid commun 2 years. concern terrorist violenc befal north mozambique, brother country.",0,train
29,"time again, face racial sexual violence. strongli defend gender equal right minor indigen peoples. racism unaccept absolut abominable.",0,train
30,establish diplomat relat isra palestinian states. peac solut coexist two state prone conflict region.,0,train
31,"warmli congratul excel assumpt presid histor milestone, unit nation commemor 75th anniversari founding.",0,test
32,"tonga pledg unwav support toward success term, welcom theme session “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism”.",0,train
33,"allow also pay tribut predecessor, excel mr. tijjani muhammadbande, success spearhead 74th session gener assembl unpreced difficult times.",0,test
34,applaud oversight dynam leadership excel mr. antonio guterr safe navig oper unit nation coordin member state fight pandemic.,0,train
35,"context defin health crisi time, tonga stand solidar member states, affect deleteri impact global outbreak, result loss preciou live love ones. express sincer sympathi heartfelt condol member states.",0,train
36,"connection, express gratitud develop partner intern commun gener financi humanitarian assistance, addit logist support, aptli facilit tonga’ respons remain vigil amidst global pandemic.",0,train
37,"econom impact affect differ sector economy. accord asia develop bank  adb , tonga encount zero econom growth 2020, however, situat astut manag within, activ financi stimulu prioriti given health-rel activities. regard education, digit divid made evid covid-19, requir acceler solut new norm teach via internet, radio televis consid thousand student tonga affect educ disrupt covid-19 similar pandem future.",0,train
39,"pacif island forum leader consist echo need urgent climat action communique, everi year, least last 30 years. year mark fifth-year anniversari adopt pari agreement. befit us captur histor moment reaffirm commit achiev goal limit global warm 1.5°c. tonga current review nation determin contribut  ndc , enhanc ndc submit unit nation framework convent climat chang  unfccc  secretariat year.",0,train
40,"though 26th session confer parti  cop 26  unfccc held glasgow, unit kingdom, postpon 2021, tonga remain commit prepar long-term low emiss develop strategi  lt-led  commun secretariat unfccc cop 26.",0,test
42,"however, agreement sign grant funding, way public privat partnership fervent support develop partners, continu drive tonga’ sdg7 object composit innov technolog solar, wind, batteri energi storag system coupl network rehabilit increas access electr furthest island tonga.",0,train
44,"endeavour achiev sdg 14 advanc commit conserv sustain use world’ ocean, sea marin resourc measur taken establish special manag area  sma  initiatives, implement tonga marin spatial plan project. govern approv inclus network 30 per cent marin protect area  mpa  kingdom. tonga progress well relat improv fisheri manag fight illegal, unreported, unregul fish secur ocean contribut food secur well-b country’ economy.",0,train
46,"countri around world enforc lockdown restrict vari degre fight covid-19, may occur mani “ocean” play pivot role context. accord unit nation educational, scientif cultur organ  unesco , bacteria use detect presenc covid-19 found depth ocean.",0,train
48,"tonga maintain baselin present determin territori boundaries, establish unit nation convent law sea, remain unchang despit effect sea level rise climat chang modif might ensue. sovereignti must compromis effect. continu support work intern law commiss sixth committee.",0,train
49,tonga pleas ratifi becom state parti follow convent year:  1  unit nation convent corrupt   2  unit nation convent recognit enforc foreign arbitr award   3  intern labour organ convent no. 182 worst form child labour.,0,train
50,"acknowledg gratitud posit engag develop partner unit nation agenc includ un offic high repres least develop countri  ldc , lldc small island develop countri  sid   world health organ    un depart econom social affair  undesa   undp  un escap  un offic coordin humanitarian affairs, well non-govern organis  ngo  civil societi organis  cso .",0,train
52,"honour address august assembl states, milestone, 75th session unit nation gener assembly. allow outset, extend congratul you, mr. president, behalf govern peopl republ trinidad tobago, elect presid session. full support trinidad tobago, acknowledg enorm undertaking, especi continu grappl global pandem affect us all.",0,train
53,"seventy-f year ago, aftermath second world war, unit nation created, primari object save “succeed gener scourg war, twice lifetim brought untold sorrow mankind.” undoubtedly, desir creat political, social econom condit last peac remain fervent today organisation’ genesi san francisco. 75th anniversari unit nation present ideal opportun reflect introspect whether embrac opportun re-engin reinvigor mechan multilateralism, engend peace, far remain elusive, advanc social progress chart way forward attain sustain development, would benefit humanity.",0,train
58,"trinidad tobago commend leadership role demonstr world health organ   spearhead effort treat plague. also wish salut commend health care frontlin worker around world continu work tirelessly, sometim signific person sacrifice, ensur affect pandem receiv best avail care.",0,train
61,"govern trinidad tobago remain attent need children, special emphasi affect pandemic, live extrem poverty, suffer mental health ailments, special need lost love ones. navig challeng times, remain commit ensur child left behind campaign “build back better”.",0,test
64,"regard, unit nation econom commiss latin america caribbean  eclac , caution debt crisi loom economi latin american caribbean subregion, compound high debt gdp debt servic ratios. despit middl upper-incom statu mani economi region, strong case exist countri deserv special consider debt relief. strongli urg intern commun assist financi support need develop countries, includ middle- incom countri like trinidad tobago, meet develop commitments.",0,train
66,"trinidad tobago continu support reform secur council. firm view improv significantli global abil effect respond variou secur challenges, current confront intern community. acknowledg seventy-five- year histori unit nation succeed prevent anoth global war, peac remain reach part world. order effective, believ unit nation must adapt ever-chang geopolit environ secur council ought reflect divers characteris truli repres unit nations.",0,train
67,"member all, thank you.mr. president, honour deliv statement behalf presid republ tunisia, mr. kai saied, excellency’ contribut gener debat seventy-fifth session unit nation gener assembly.",0,test
68,"name god, compassionate, merciful,",0,train
69,"mr. presid unit nation gener assembly,",0,train
70,"secretary-gener unit nations,",0,train
71,"majesti excellencies,",0,train
72,give pleasur begin congratul mr. volkan bozkir sisterli republ turkey presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session. wish everi success tasks.,0,train
73,would also like express great appreci mr. tijjani muhammad- band abl leadership seventy-fourth session.,0,train
74,also reiter appreci secretary-gener antonio guterr express continu support work initi strengthen role intern organization.,0,train
76,"reiter occas tunisia’ commit unit nation charter. believ import intern organ readi maintain contribut activ pursuit goals. member secur council, tunisia continu shoulder respons activ particip collect effort consolid intern peac secur  priorit prevent diplomaci  promot polit settlement conflict disput  mitig effect humanitarian tragedi  support intern effort address variou challeng threat pose peoples. tunisia also renew commit particip peacekeep oper around world.",0,train
77,"resolv palestinian question base resolut intern legitimacy, term refer peac process arab peac initi urgent prioriti main entri point restor region world peac security.",0,train
81,"import progress issu counter-terror national, region intern efforts, threat persist requir us coordin effort levels. must intensifi cooper counter plan terrorist organ extremist order protect societi people, particular young.",0,train
82,"may peac god’ merci bless upon you.mr. president,",0,train
83,"distinguish head state government,",0,train
84,"mr. secretari general,",0,train
85,greet respect behalf nation.,0,train
86,would like thank mr. muhammed-band success work unit nation difficult period.,0,train
87,"also wholeheartedli congratul former colleague, ambassador volkan bozkir, taken presid gener assembly.",0,train
88,"ambassador bozkir’ elect post support overwhelm major countri sign person qualiti experienc diplomat politician, well confid turkey.",0,train
89,"first turkish citizen undertak highest-rank posit within unit nation system, believ ambassador bozkir voic conscienc intern community.",0,train
90,doubt carri duti fair transpar manner.,0,train
91,"wish mr. bozkir everi success duty, assum meaning date 75th anniversari found unit nations.",0,train
92,think hold gener assembl theme “fight covid-19 multilateralism” right decision.,0,train
93,"turkey, stand commit determin maintain support fight covid-19.",0,train
94,pandem caught world time difficulti cope variou challenges.,0,train
95,"globalization, rules-bas intern system multilateralism, alreadi subject discussions, even question impact pandemic.",0,train
96,"look pictur front us, need accur sincer evalu full empti part glass.",0,train
97,"empti part glass, need reform multilater organizations, particular unit nations.",0,train
98,seen ineffect exist global mechan crisis.,0,train
99,"much true took weeks, even months, secur council, fundament decision-mak bodi unit nations, includ pandem agenda.",0,train
100,"begin pandemic, scene emerg countri left own.",0,train
101,"thus, seen right “the world bigger five” thesis, advoc year rostrum.",0,train
102,fate human cannot left merci limit number countries.,0,test
105,"must provid council effective, democratic, transpar account structur functioning.",0,train
106,"likewise, also strengthen gener assembly, reflect common conscienc intern community.",0,train
107,"look full part glass, unit nation preserv potenti turn point humanity’ quest peace, justic prosperity.",0,train
108,"consid yet overcom pandem crisis, tri use institut mechan multilater cooper effect way.",0,train
109,"problem global, local solut save day.",0,train
110,"turkey, sinc earli day outbreak crisis, call cooper intern platforms.",0,train
111,"forefront effort combat pandem g-20, turkic council, mikta, organ islam cooper platforms.",0,train
112,"reach 146 countri 7 intern organ request medic equip assistance, understand “a sure friend known unsur times”.",0,test
113,"repatri oper carri out, ensur return hundr thousand citizen 141 countries, homes.",0,test
114,"flights, carri 5,500 foreign sixty-seven countri homes.",0,train
115,intent carri gouta “corona viru diplomacy”.,0,test
116,expect still hope compens anyon aid repatri efforts.,0,test
117,stand victim oppress vein nation essenc “enterpris humanitarian foreign policy”.,0,train
119,"matter countri produc in, vaccin made ready-for- use offer common benefit humanity.",0,train
120,"dear delegates,",0,test
123,"regret unit nation secretari general’ call global humanitarian ceasefire, also support, produc concret results.",0,train
124,"turkey, look way elimin threat countri humanity, take kind initi required. conflict syria, enter 10th year, continu pose threat secur stabil region.",0,train
125,"countri struck first seriou blow daesh region, continu fight pkk-ypg terrorist organization.",0,train
126,"intern community, cannot find perman solut syrian issu without adopt principl attitud decis stanc terrorist organizations.",0,train
127,approach also essenti ensur safe voluntari return syria.,0,train
128,"return 411,000 syrian brother sister region liber terrorist organ syria clear indic this.",0,test
129,"likewise, thank region made secure, succeed prevent million syrian live differ part country, particularli idlib, left homeland.",0,test
130,turkey host approxim 4 million syrian territori year address needs.,0,train
131,"also meet need approxim number syrian on-site, region keep control, especi area close border.",0,train
132,"ultimately, build ten thousand briquett hous idlib elsewher brother sisters.",0,train
133,"carri activ mean support people, without signific support intern commun intern organizations.",0,test
134,prioriti us resolv conflict syria basi roadmap endors unit nation secur council resolut 2254  2015 .,0,test
136,"way syria achiev last peace, preserv territori integr polit unity.",0,test
137,"goal achieved, determin prevent terrorist organ intend pose threat nation security, well polit uniti territori integr syria.",0,train
138,"today, countri like turkey, host highest number refugees, save digniti human sacrifices.",0,train
139,"however, states, includ european countries, unfortun violat right refuge asylum-seekers.",0,train
140,time unit nation take firm stand violat corrod geneva convent intern human right system.,0,train
141,"intern commun couldn’t ensur neither coup plotter support made account massacres, human right violat especi mass grave tarhuna.",0,train
142,turkey countri give concret respons provid support call help legitim govern libya.,0,train
143,believ perman polit solut libya establish inclus comprehens dialogu conduct libyans.,0,train
145,"histori forgiv covet yemen’ sovereignty, polit uniti territori integr intent gain influenc region, overlook continu suffer yemenis.",0,train
146,sincer desir iraq turn area conflict extern power reach posit produc stabil prosper region.,0,train
147,"support neighbor iraq everi field, would like cooper close especi fight terrorism.",0,train
148,"expect genuin cooper intern commun iraq concern uproot pkk terrorist organization, nest iraq, case daesh.",0,train
149,13 01 2021,0,train
151,"would like reiter call parti abid oblig joint comprehens plan action, significantli contribut region global security.",0,train
152,"order occup oppress palestine, bleed wound humanity, continu hurt consciences.",0,train
153,"dirti hand reach privaci jerusalem, sacr place three great religion coexist, constantli increas audacity.",0,train
154,"palestinian peopl stood israel’ polici oppression, violence, intimid half century.",0,test
155,"upon reject document surrender, tri impos palestin name “deal century”, israel time acceler attempt “have insid track” help collaborators.",0,test
156,turkey support plan palestinian peopl give consent to.,0,train
157,particip countri region game mean anyth beyond serv israel’ effort erod basic intern parameters.,0,train
158,"countri declar intent open embassi jerusalem, violat unit nation resolut intern law, serv make conflict complic actions.",0,train
159,"seek solut vain, one-sided, unjust.",0,train
161,"favor resolv conflict region soon possible, especi nagorno-karabakh conflict, line territori integr sovereignti azerbaijan georgia resolut unit nation osce.",0,train
162,"kashmir conflict, also key stabil peac south asia, still burn issue.",0,train
163,step taken follow abolit special statu jammu-kashmir complic problem.,0,train
164,"favour solv issu dialogue, within framework unit nation resolut especi line expect peopl kashmir.",0,test
165,distinguish delegates.,0,test
166,"behind tension exist eastern mediterranean while, countri act understand “the winner take all”.",0,train
167,futil step exclud countri chanc success.,0,train
168,"design anyon else’ right, remedi legitim interests, neither eastern mediterranean region.",0,train
169,"however, cannot turn blind eye violat right countri turkish cypriot fact interest ignored.",0,train
171,turkey countri compel shoulder burden neg develop eastern mediterranean itself.,0,train
172,"hand, ignor countri come natur resourc region explain neither wisdom conscienc intern law.",0,train
173,"prioriti settl disput sincer dialogue, base intern law equit basis.",0,train
174,"however, would like clearli state never toler imposition, harassment, attack opposit direction.",0,train
175,would like repeat call establish dialogu cooper coastal countri eastern mediterranean.,0,train
176,"purpose, would like propos conven region conference, includ turkish cypriots, right interest countri region considered.",0,train
177,"obstacl solut uncompromising, unjust spoil approach greek cypriot side.",0,train
178,"ignor intern agreements, greek cypriot side aim make turkish cypriot minor homeland, even complet exclud island.",0,train
179,"guarantor country, never left turkish cypriot peopl alon right cause, leav future.",0,train
180,support solut perman guarante secur turkish cypriot peopl histor polit right island.,0,train
181,year mark 75th anniversari atom bomb hiroshima nagasaki.,0,train
183,"contrast, architectur arm control suffer signific damag recent years.",0,train
185,anoth import issu oblig act togeth climat change.,0,test
186,see human interfer balanc natur lead heavi costs.,0,train
187,must stop revers bad course.,0,train
188,"turkey, sincer support effort struggl fulfil obligations, even though almost neglig histor respons point.",0,train
189,"recent past, host confer parti unit nation convent combat desertification.",0,train
190,"conduct fruit cooper mani region countries, especi africa.",0,train
191,also undertook host 16th confer parti convent biolog divers held 2022.,0,train
192,"now, want draw attent problem threaten humanity, reason consid invisible.",0,train
193,"racism, xenophobia, islamophobia hate speech reach alarm level.",0,train
194,"cours pandemic, act violenc vulner people, especi migrant asylum-seekers, acceler xenophobia racism increased.",0,train
195,muslim expos danger tendenc fuel prejudic ignorance.,0,train
196,urgent call intern organ take concret step fight mentality.,0,train
197,"reiter call march 15, day terrorist attack perpetr new zealand muslims, declar unit nation “intern solidar day islamophobia”.",0,train
198,"second largest intern organ unit nations, organ islam cooper offici recogn day.",0,train
200,develop countri low-incom countri affect crisis.,0,train
203,support unit nation secretari general’ roadmap digit cooperation.,0,train
204,"also set theme first “antalya diplomaci forum”, design address global region issues, “diplomaci digit age”.",0,train
205,also host unit nation technolog bank least develop countries.,0,train
206,"also gain signific momentum relat africa, humanitarian histor tie connect close geographies.",0,test
208,"conclud remarks, would like say strong support multilater continu sensit period pass through.",0,train
210,"continu effort transform istanbul, one promin citi world throughout history, region hub unit nations.",0,train
211,wish success 75th gener assembly’ work.,0,test
212,"wish best health.mr. president, distinguish member gener assembly, ladi gentlemen, introduct",0,train
213,"behalf govern tuvalu, congratul elect presid 75th unit nation gener assembly. tuvalu full confid leadership. let also take opportun thank presid 74th session, professor mohammed-band success session leadership, despit challengesto work gener assembl due covid-19 pandemic.",0,train
214,also want express tuvalu’ solidar countri fight covid19 pandemic.,0,train
215,theme unga75: multilater,0,train
216,acknowledg intern cooper solidar underway respond covid-19 pandemic. countri benefit assist wish thank bilater multilater develop partner continu help us difficult times.,0,train
218,"therefor congratul prioriti given multilater theme 75th unga, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0,train
219,covid19 challeng,0,train
220,concret multilater respons un need futur want.,0,train
221,central global recoveri vaccin save live stop transmission. acknowledg import work develop vaccin covid19 welcom effort ensur avail afford vulnerable. respect applaud import work covax facil advanc market commit acceler develop manufactur covid-19 vaccin guarante fair equit access everi countri world.,0,train
223, 	are inclus leav one behind ,0,train
224, ii 	protect health wellb ,0,train
225, iii 	preserv natur marin environ ,0,test
226, iv 	are low emiss climat smart ,0,train
228,unit nation place system process place us well face health econom crisis. 2030 agenda sustain develop sdgs. pari agreement. samoa pathway sids. istanbul plan action ldcs. resourc technolog need. requir strong polit commit immedi ambiti action.,0,train
232,"transform invest respons covid-19 pandem must also serv build resili impact climat change. fail this, put addit debt alreadi exhaust capacities, exacerb climat crise go forward.",0,train
235,access grant financ debt relief initi crucial aspect overcom poverti fulfil 2030 agenda sdgs. critic provid fiscal space ldc sid recov pandemic.,0,test
236,"covid-19 pandem global problem need global response. believ need un networked, inclusive, effect multilater would aid effort recoveri continu implement sdgs.",0,train
237,"regrett howev republ china  taiwan , exemplari respons pandem continu kept un system. taiwan manag pandem well reach level compar oecd countri sever sdg indicators. taiwan much better posit help intern commun build back better.",0,train
238,"tuvalu strongli support roc’ readmiss un found member un, activ particip un special agenc includ icao.",0,train
239,"tuvalu remain commit multilateralism. work togeth global famili full respect human rights, togeth build futur respons resili health, econom environ crises.",0,test
240,thank mr. presid,0,train
241,"tuvalu mo teatuai pleas deliv statement behalf excel mr. john pomb joseph magufuli, presid unit republ tanzania, could virtual join meet gener assembl owe ongo gener elect campaign country. mr. magufuli stand second presidenti term 28 octob elections. govern tanzania would like emphas resolv ensur year’ campaign elect conduct democratic, peaceful, credible, fair transpar manner, tanzania done elect without fail sinc 1965.",0,train
242,"unit republ tanzania extend warm congratul you, sir, assumpt presid gener assembly. assur delegation’ full support cooper discharg nobl mandate. also want pay tribut predecessor, excel mr. tijjani muhammad- bande, excel leadership commit demonstr term offic difficult times.",0,train
243,"great sad juli tanzania lost one great leaders, late benjamin william mkapa, former presid unit republ tanzania, would like take opportun express sincer gratitud everyon condolences.",0,train
244,"spirit, tanzania urg intern financi institut develop partner devis mechan provid resourc uncondit term complement effort least-develop develop countri fight pandemic, including, limit to, debt-relief measur enabl revamp economi rapidly.",0,train
245,"mark seventy-fifth anniversari organization, unit republ tanzania would like reaffirm share commit maintain pillar unit nation — peac security, human right development. tanzania’ independ remain remark testament commit organ ideal charter unit nations. unit nation instrument facilit independence. tanzania remain commit member unit nations, special polit decolon committe support liber struggl mani fellow state fight regain independence. years, tanzania also particip promot pillar unit nation matter peac secur work toward sustain futur hope see. proud particip umbrella unit nation peacekeep operations. tanzania current 2,303 peacekeep serv six missions, believ peac secur cornerston socioeconom development.",0,train
246,"question multilater import tool collabor among nations, unit nation abli demonstrated. enter decad action implement 2030 agenda sustain development, continu believ unit nation ultim right platform address global challenges. implement 2030 agenda sustain development, current govern tanzania accomplish number achiev variou sectors. nation economi grow rate 6.9 per cent, compar 6.2 per cent 2015. however, covid-19 result lower growth project 5.5 per cent, creat need relief support vibrant econom growth projection. inflat rate remain stabl singl digit 4.4 per cent, lowest rate record 3.4 per cent 2019. result, 1 juli world bank announc upgrad tanzanian economi least-develop lower-middle-incom status, five year nation develop vision’ project 2025. mileston result differ nation measures, mainli focus clamp corruption, improv public administr proper manag public natur resources. also made possibl government’ reform partnership variou develop partners. therefor would like express sincer gratitud unit nation special agencies, fund programm develop partners.",0,train
247,"twenty-f year adopt beij platform, inequ still loom larg world. despit challeng remain, tanzania abl put place variou nation framework guid implement measur ensur gender equal empower women girls, includ mainstream gender equal object govern polici programmes. term promot right education, govern also overseen major construct rehabilit learn teach facilities, well provis free educ primari secondari schools. rais primari school enrol 1 million student 2015 1.6 million 2020. consequently, number student enrol secondari school also increas 1.6 million 2015 2.1 million year.",0,train
249,"remind credibl unit nation rest well-repres respons secur council. respect, reiter common african position, elabor ezulwini consensu sirt declaration.",0,train
251,"tanzania reiter posit support stable, peac prosper democrat republ congo. commend effort made far unit nations, sadc region whole intern commun make happen. regard, also want stress continu pragmat engag crucial order align sadc’ posit reconfigur forc intervent brigade, maintain effect defenc capability, oper effect command-and-control unit.",0,train
252,tanzania alway express view econom embargo impos cuba 1960 outliv relevance. encourag parti engag construct dialogu aim achiev total removal.,0,train
253,"question palestine, continu support resolut conflict israel palestine, hing two-stat solut live side side peac security.",0,train
254,"would like conclud pledg assembl unit republ tanzania continu render necessari support unit nation ensur success import global agendas, includ promot equal self-determin nations, peac security, human rights, development, implement 2030 agenda unit nation reform processes. again, reiter commit multilater call member state embrac better world. god bless unit republ tanzania, god bless africa, god bless unit nation god bless us all.i honour oral present written address excel mr. yoweri kaguta museveni, presid republ uganda, gener debat gener assembl seventy-fifth session.",0,train
255,"“i wish congratul you, sir, elect presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session, assur uganda’ full support. would like thank excel mr. tijjani muhammad- band except leadership assembl seventy-fourth session, particularli coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandem period. would also like pay tribut secretary-general, excel mr. antonio guterres, dedic commit work unit nations, express solidar countri fight covid-19 pandem condol live lost.",0,train
256,"“uganda, like mani countri around world, respond onslaught pandemic. view covid-19 fearless foe human life confronted. approach deal priorit protect human lives. first pragmat step ensur countri respond adequ mitig impact pandemic, govern develop guidelin standard oper procedur align standard response. combin systemat testing, tracing, quarantin treatment restrict movement contact, aim suppress transmiss virus. combin measur widespread media campaign sensit public. govern also continu strengthen nation health system part commit univers health coverag ensur health facil handl covid-19 patient well equip necessari suppli order support effici effect case management. deliber target decisions, uganda abl prevent mass coronaviru infect within country. govern also priorit sustain recoveri pandem nation covid-19 respons strategy.",0,train
258,"“we commend intern commun support given far deal pandemic. decis april intern monetari fund, world bank group, group 20 immedi suspend 76 countries’ debt-servic payment one year laudable. however, agre suspens debt enough ensur respond recov covid-19 pandem navig devast social econom effects. call action comprehens debt- relief packages, particularli debt cancel multilater bilater creditors, order enabl us obtain fund need covid-19 pandem response.",0,train
259,"“i glad inform member state key sector uganda’ economy, especi agricultur inform commun technology, endur covid-19 pandemic. product level increased, exceed pre-covid-19 levels. coffe export continu surg despit coronaviru pandemic, figur april 2020 show growth compar previou year. uganda abl stand weather storm appropri action took government, includ pursu right polici promot private- sector-l growth.",0,train
260,"“progress regist implement 2030 agenda sustain development, reflect second voluntari nation review report, present 2020 high-level polit forum sustain development. regard, uganda adopt third five- year nation develop plan 2020 21 2024 25 theme “sustain industri inclus growth, employ wealth creation”. plan emphas key intervent broad transform categori implementation, includ environment protection, govern industrialization, work close develop partner relev stakeholders, particularli context build back better work recoveri covid-19 pandemic. priorit elimin silo approach servic deliveri enhanc synergi across sector among actor implement nation sustain develop prioriti policies.",0,train
262,"“a unit nation commemor seventy-fifth anniversary, uganda join commun nation acknowledg legitimacy, conven power, norm impact undeni success share vision achieve. much, however, remain done order strengthen intern cooper achiev three interrel interdepend goal global region peac security, sustain econom develop advanc human right dignity.",0,train
263,"“thi seventy-fifth anniversari year also mark end third intern decad erad colonialism, time 17 non-self-govern territori remain book regard implement declar grant independ coloni countri peoples. unresolv question western sahara remain singl issu stand way total erad coloni african continent. uganda therefor join intern commun underscor commit purpos principl enshrin charter unit nations, includ equal right self- determin peoples.",0,test
266,"“uganda continu support advanc peac secur effort region. fulli awar prosper develop countri region beyond inextric link peac security. remain activ involv region initi igad, eac, intern confer great lake region au, encourag progress see. continu support peac effort frameworks, south sudan, polit transit sudan stabil effort somalia.",0,train
267,"“the threat terror remain secur challeng time. mind covid-19 number measur taken govern around globe may help suppress activ violent extremist terrorist groups, new normal creat crisi also play hand violent extremist terrorist groups. uganda remain commit support global region counter-terror efforts. region, terrorist group al-shabaab, boko haram, islam state iraq sham, al-qaida alli democrat forc continu threat common secur development. neutral requir cooper firm responses.",0,test
268,"“finally, later year import elect held forjudg intern court justice, one organization’ key organs. uganda accept court’ compulsori jurisdiction, without reservations, long ago march 1963, new member unit nation family. proud judg julia sebutind uganda, first african woman court one serv distinction, re-elect second final term. commend judg julia sebutind gener assembl request support re-elect second final mandat intern court justice.”distinguish mr. president,",0,train
269,excellences! ladi gentlemen!,0,train
270,"behalf ukrain honour congratul you, mr. bozkir, elect presid 75th un gener assembl session. steer assembl hard time even tradit intern instrument format may work. want assur ukrain continu reliabl partner unit nations, even despit fact separ thousand kilometers.",0,train
271,"year ago, new york discuss threat futur world, devis plans, made forecasts. could anyon imagin back year 2020 would stage crush test planet? countri lock borders, summer olymp game postponed, session un gener assembl held online. year ago, would say script apocalypt blockbuster, realiti 2020.",0,train
272,"uneasi world time make sens recal feel leader unit nation found state 75 year ago. human surviv horrend war. world resembl soldier stroll across blood-drench field minut explos stopped. emaciated, hollowed, loss alive.",0,train
273,"second world war becam “global earthquake” claim ten million lives. yet human manag recover. 24 octob 1945, confer san francisco, un found nations, ukrain among them, put asid contradict got unit build better world together.",0,train
274,"undoubtedly, 75 year numer achiev made term econom development, poverti eradication, minim war cataclysm could happen unit nations. human conquer space, even hold un session remot thank modern technologies.",0,train
275,"speak languag technologies, un becom softwar save world critic errors.",0,train
276,"time, acknowledg system get glitch more. attack new “bugs” “viruses”. contain alway efficient.",0,train
277,"say head state 21st centuri russian feder annex crimean peninsula. head state, contain russia’ militari aggress donba seventh year row.",0,train
278,"feel would founder unit nation have, known 75 year later, center europe, would war? crimea human right would flagrantli violated, persecut ukrainian crimean tatar would take place. militar peninsula water area around would build up, would undermin secur balanc black sea region. would chang someth un charter mechan unit nation known 75 year later, result war donbas, would 14,000 kill almost 1.5 million peopl would lose homes?",0,train
281,"grate intern partner help support difficult way. hope uniti intern commun cause. i’m convinc unit nation play import role restor sovereignti territori integr ukraine, along respect intern law. need improv exist mechan end.",0,train
282,"unaccept sovereignti independ state violat one perman member un secur council. ultim prove mechan 1945 work today full extent. bring depreci secur council. ukrain activ particip reform. bodi becom representative, balanced, transpar efficient. unit nations’ vest interest effect instrument somebodi violat abus veto right statu perman member.",0,train
284,"also call support updat resolut “situat human right autonom republ crimea citi sevastopol, ukraine” present gener assembl end year.",0,test
285,"import — case crimea donba becom customari element intern landscap reports, confer protocol statement anniversari occup taken suffici form intern reaction.",0,train
286,"contrari — wound center europ bleeding, pain felt world. recip effici treatment de-occup crimea donbas.",0,train
287,"understand 2014 messag heard un everi year. exactli biggest problem lies. ukrainian case  global threat planet, report get longer longer everi pass year.",0,train
288,"last year’ assembl session, said: “there notion somebodi else’ war. planet big anymore”.",0,train
289,prove mh17 case. prove environment threats. problem access food drink water.,0,train
290,"prove inform threat world. disinform fake news influenc world markets,stock exchang even elector processes.",0,train
291,"ukraine, one countri 2014 activ counteract propaganda inform attacks, stand readi initi establish kyiv headquart intern offic counter disinform propaganda.",0,test
292,"fact planet big anymor final prove year 2020. fire australia shook world. down boe 737, ukrainian aircraft carri citizen ukraine, canada, iran, afghanistan, unit kingdom sweden struck territori iran.",0,train
293,"cours — covid-19 pandemic, spread lightn speed. mankind even manag googl “covid” “wuhan” coronaviru alreadi knock door everi house.",0,train
294,"consid also this. coronaviru spare one. care whether countri nuclear weapon level gdp, whether state part g7 g20, whether christianity, islam, judaism religion profess country. matter noth covid.",0,train
295,today come understand fight covid-19 take one year. hardli last pandem see through. emerg exist crisi stronger well prepared.,0,train
296,"test countries. race limit resourc exacerb problems. need sincer dialogu activ solidarity, valu multilater lies.",0,test
297,"overcom togeth seriou econom crisi last years. expect figur gdp fall sometim double-digit. statist interest select experts. reduct qualiti life billion people, loom rise threat hunger millions.",0,train
298,"unit effort countri must time. ukrain cannot stand asid readi make contribut ensuring, particular, food secur mankind.",0,train
299,"everi year call action instead talk get louder louder gener assembly. testifi crisi unit nations, secur architecture, health humanity, economi world whole find in.",0,test
301,realli want start speech 2021 say 75th gener assembl session come histori exampl return activ multilater effici intern solidarity.,0,train
302,session recal purpos principl un charter start perman unwaveringli follow them.,0,train
303,session reviv truth fundament un established: don’t planet b. live once.,0,train
304,"exactli futur want, exactli un need. sincer wish you, mr. president, achiev goal, along stakeholders. convinc 193 un member states.",0,train
305,"thank attention.presid gener assembly, ambassador volkan bozkir,",0,train
306,"nation repres repres intern organizations,",0,train
307,"seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation find us amid crisis, which, undoubtedly, look differ disast caus second world war, also forc us reimagin futur order build achiev prevent futur crises, economic, health, climat together.",0,train
309,commemor anniversari also challeng us futur want countri societi beyond crisis.,0,test
310,"gener assembly, mr. president, uruguay wish emphas road travelled, way pandem next 75 years, alway find us side — multilater — support quest solut protect multilater legal framework aspect intern life — health, environment, trade migration.",0,test
311,"uruguay’ access membership month ago allianc multilateralism, initiative, launch germani france, seek uphold multilater order, anoth sign country’ commit cause.",0,train
312,"uruguay support role world health organ role unit nation system coordin global respons pandemic, understand intern organ play fundament role coordin guid best possibl solut current critic situat coordin manag medium- long-term impacts.",0,train
313,"country, mr. president, adher call achiev global equit access health technologies, medicin vaccin share knowledge, intellectu properti data necessari detection, prevention, treatment respons covid-19.",0,train
314,"country’ respons pandem focus multidisciplinari approach cover social, econom epidemiolog aspect monitor honorari scientif advisori group proud. approach base citizens’ respons use freedom, solidar generosity, which, togeth strong resili health system, allow us resum work educ cultur activities.",0,train
316,"begin decad action deliv sustain develop goals, move word action essenti end poverty, protect environ improv live condit world’ population.",0,train
317,"unit nation promot agenda 2030 and, despit consider current challenges, remain main guid achiev sustain development.",0,train
318,"uruguay work hard sinc recognit effect compliance. countri continu honour histori reduc inequalities, well commit decent work base invest growth.",0,train
320,"scenario, paradox countri classifi high-incom develop countries, uruguay, access major sourc intern cooper favour line credit. continu promot revis classif graduation, base sole per capita income.",0,train
321,"regard, wish underscor support eclac develop multi-factor approach. sustain develop concern care environment. that, too, pandemic, challeng countri cannot face alone, requir collect meet challeng face humankind.",0,train
322,uruguay continu take step direct recent establish ministri environ demonstr issu prioriti government.,0,train
323,"mr. president, uruguay wish reiter support pari agreement climat chang firm commit object area.",0,test
325,"understand product efforts, good experi effect effici management, subject account light current challenges, receiv greater attent recognition.",0,train
327,"countri would like reaffirm assembl support secretary-general’ road map digit cooperation. uruguay understand initi prosper contribut effect fulfil sdgs, digit technolog must enabl us bridg digit connect divide, among countri within countri alike.",0,train
328,"also essenti promot respect human right networks, protect privaci person data, well access inform freedom expression, public private.",0,train
329,"lastly, necessari work digit security, broad particip state actors, privat sector civil society.",0,train
330,"regard secretary-general’ initiatives, would like focu moment call ceasefir — global ceasefir — endors country.",0,train
332,"countri strongli commit unit nation peacekeep forces, main contributor troop per capita worldwide. clear demonstr nation commit offer made govern establish laboratori increas medic diagnost capabl within unit nation peac oper respons pandemic.",0,train
333,"context, worth recal uruguay’ call protect hospit school attack conflict zone need support secur council resolut matter.",0,train
334,"uruguay reiter nation commit human right agenda continu activ uphold human rights, includ protect right children, plight civilian conflict situat women’ rights, promot respect right among actor intern community. regard, continu ensur effect implement advocaci mechan unit nations.",0,train
335,"would like make special mention vulner section population, particularli affect pandemic, women victim domest violence, particular concern uruguay. prompt us develop specif polici respond situation. cannot forget migrant intern displac persons, also doubli vulner pandemic.",0,test
336,"underscor open polici country, welcom voluntari migration, base valu democraci equal law respect right people, regardless origin.",0,train
337,"lastly, would like underscor role intern crimin court import deterr effect mass genocid atroc perpetrators. uruguay reiter commit intern justic system and, particular, support intern crimin court independ imparti judici institut central role fight impun pursuit justice.",0,test
338,"govern commit combat insecur crime work hard so. also continu cooper unit nation fight terrorism, transnat organ crime link two.",0,train
340,"uruguay particularli interest increas relev overal effort unit nations, particular gener assembly, well member state ensur potenti effect participation.",0,test
341,"uruguay alway sought contribut overal transpar function unit nation organs, includ work unit nation secur council.",0,test
342,"today’ world, possibl increas effici effici organ appreciated, cut oper cost increas transpar account regard spending.",0,train
344,world leader must take charge.,0,train
345,thank much.it profound honor address unit nation gener assembly.,0,train
346,"75 year end world war two found unit nations, engag great global struggle.",0,train
347,wage fierc battl invis enemi — china viru — claim countless live 188 countries.,0,train
348,"unit states, launch aggress mobil sinc second world war.",0,train
349,rapidli produc record suppli ventil — creat surplu allow us share friend partner around globe.,0,test
350,"pioneer life-sav treatments, reduc fatal rate 85 per cent sinc april.",0,test
351,mass produc advanc deliv immedi upon arrival.,0,train
352,"distribut vaccine, defeat virus, end pandemic, enter new era unpreced prosperity, cooper peace.",0,test
353,"pursu bright future, must hold account nation unleash plagu onto world: china.",0,train
354,"earliest day virus, china lock travel domest allow flight leav china infect world.",0,test
355,"china condemn travel ban country, even cancel domest flight lock citizen homes.",0,train
356,"chines government, world health organ -- virtual control china — fals declar evid human- to-human transmission.",0,train
357,"later, fals said peopl without symptom would spread disease.",0,train
358,unit nation must hold china account actions.,0,train
359,"addition, everi year china dump million million ton plastic trash oceans, overfish countries’ waters, destroy vast swath coral reef, emit toxic mercuri atmospher countri anywher world.",0,train
360,"china’ carbon emiss nearli twice u.s. has, it’ rise fast.",0,test
361,"contrast, withdrew one-sid pari climat accord, last year america reduc carbon emiss countri agreement.",0,train
362,attack america’ except environment record ignor china’ rampant pollut interest environment.,0,train
363,want punish america stand it.,0,train
364,"unit nation effect organization, must focu real problem world.",0,train
365,"includ terrorism, oppress women, forc labor, drug trafficking, human sex trafficking, religi persecution, ethnic cleans religi minorities.",0,train
366,america alway leader human rights.,0,train
367,"administr advanc religi liberty, opportun women, decrimin homosexuality, combat human trafficking, protect unborn children.",0,train
368,also know american prosper bedrock freedom secur world.,0,train
369,"three short years, built greatest economi histori — quickli again.",0,train
371,stood decad china’ trade abuses.,0,train
372,revit nato allianc countri pay much fair share.,0,train
373,"forg histor partnership mexico, guatemala, hondura el salvador stop human smuggling.",0,train
374,"stand peopl cuba, nicaragua, venezuela righteou struggl freedom.",0,train
375,"withdrew terribl iran nuclear deal impos crippl sanction world’ lead state sponsor terror. jsepj obliter isi caliph 100 per cent, kill founder leader, al-baghdadi, elimin world’ top terrorist, qasem soleimani.",0,train
376,month achiev peac deal serbia kosovo.,0,test
377,reach landmark breakthrough two peac deal middl east — decad progress.,0,train
378,"israel, unit arab emirates, bahrain sign histor peac agreement white house, mani middl eastern countri come. come fast know it’ great them, it’ great world.",0,test
379,groundbreak peac deal dawn new middl east.,0,train
380,"intend deliv peac agreement shortly, never optimist futur region. blood sand. day hope over.",0,train
381,"speak, unit state also work end war afghanistan — bring troop home.",0,test
382,"america fulfil destini peacemaker. peac strength. stronger ever before, weapon advanc level like we’v never before, like frankli we’v never even thought before, pray god never use them.",0,train
383,"decades, tire voic propos fail solutions, pursu global ambit expens people.",0,train
385,"president, reject fail approach past — proudli put america first, put countri first. that’ okay, that’ doing.",0,train
386,"suprem confid next year, gather person, midst one greatest year histori frankly, hopefully, histori world.",0,train
387,"thank you, god bless all. god bless america. god bless unit nations.",0,train
388,distinguish presid volkan bozkir!,0,train
389,distinguish secretary-gener antonio guterres! distinguish head delegations!,0,train
390,ladi gentlemen!,0,test
391,seventy-fifth session gener assembl held first time histori unit nation complet new format — onlin videoconferenc due coronaviru pandemic.,0,train
392,global catastroph observ planet last hundr years.,0,train
395,"context, us deepli realiz need consolid mutual effort governments, parliaments, civil societi institut  strengthen principl common respons  coordin intern partnership accordingli  increas statu capacity, well expand compet world health organization.",0,test
396,"goal jointli creat fair global system ensur basic rights, freedoms, health well-b everi human being.",0,train
397,"regard, propos develop un auspic intern code voluntari commit state pandemics.",0,train
398,document reflect state’ commit citizen intern partners.,0,test
401,special fund set end.,0,train
402,would like take opportun express deep gratitud friend partner gener support time trials.,0,train
403,"fulli support intern community’ effort effect combat pandemic, includ develop widespread use essenti drug vaccines.",0,train
404,also welcom propos secretary-gener antonio guterr hold summit press issu food secur current context crisis.,0,train
405,dear particip gener assembly!,0,test
406,"three year ago, speak high rostrum unit nations, state uzbekistan firmli determin implement radic reforms.",0,train
407,"today, process democrat transform countri becom irreversible.",0,train
408,"last year’ parliamentari elect demonstr grow polit activ popul parties, role civil societi institut influenc media.",0,train
409,gender equal polici becam prioriti us.,0,train
410,role women public administr growing. new parliament number women deputi doubled.,0,train
411,human right situat also complet changed. forc child labour fulli abolished. nation human right strategi adopted.,0,train
412,"respons call unit nation reduc number stateless persons, year alon 50,000 compatriot grant uzbek citizenship.",0,train
413,situat religi freedom countri also improv dramatically.,0,train
414,strengthen inter-ethn harmoni inter-religi toler constant import task us.,0,train
415,uncompromis fight corrupt reach new level.,0,train
416,"regard, import legisl adopt independ anti-corrupt agenc established.",0,train
417,econom reform dynam continu country.,0,train
418,"first time, publicli declar determin reduc poverty.",0,train
419,achiev develop entrepreneurship job creation  improv invest climat busi environ  build modern infrastructur provid target social assist popul train peopl new professions.,0,train
421,youth parliament agenc youth affair oper uzbekistan.,0,train
422,august samarkand intern forum youth right success held auspic unit nations.,0,train
423,would like take opportun call support uzbekistan’ initi adopt unit nation convent right youth.,0,train
425,dear friends!,0,train
426,fundament chang take place region central asia.,0,train
427,"manag creat atmospher good neighbourliness, mutual trust, friendship mutual respect among state region.",0,train
428,"common achiev consult summit central asian head state, put forth initi 72nd session unit nation gener assembl regularli held sinc then.",0,test
429,"past four years, uzbekistan’ bilater trade neighbour state grown almost five-fold.",0,train
430,day trial countri stand leav one anoth alone.,0,train
431,"today, central asian state face import strateg task.",0,train
432,"ensur deep integr region global economic, transport transit corridors.",0,train
433,"regard, propos establish region centr develop transport commun auspic unit nations.",0,train
434,"today, effect secur cooper maintain central asia.",0,test
435,unit nation global anti-terror strategi success implemented.,0,train
436,favour conduct intern confer ten-year result forthcom prospect joint plan region strategy.,0,train
438,readi hold intern forum “central asia crossroad world civilizations” ancient citi khiva 2021 cooper unesco.,0,train
439,dear particip session!,0,train
440,see afghanistan integr part central asia.,0,train
441,tashkent high-level confer afghanistan march 2018 mark new stage mobil intern community’ effort resolv afghan problem.,0,train
442,fulli support peac talk among afghan polit forc launch year citi doha september.,0,train
444,believ issu ensur peac stabil afghanistan must remain constant focu unit nations.,0,train
446,"regard, import work principl “from instabl destruct — peac prosperity”.",0,train
448,main task commiss must promot facilit econom social develop afghanistan.,0,train
449,"distinguish head state government! anoth acut problem time relat global climat change. today, everi countri feel neg effect process.",0,train
450,"unfortunately, neg develop also pose great threat sustain develop central asia.",0,train
451,would like draw attent devast effect dri aral sea.,0,train
452,aral sea region becam centr environment tragedy.,0,train
453,"country’ initiative, unit nation multi-partn human secur trust fund aral sea region established.",0,train
454,hope fund serv base platform intern commun provid practic assist popul live stress ecolog zone.,0,train
455,propos adopt special resolut un gener assembl declar aral sea region area ecolog innov technologies.,0,train
456,would expedi mark date adopt import document intern day protect restor ecosystems.,0,train
458,problem becom especi acut condit pandemic.,0,train
459,"voic poverty, get even alarm today, must rais concern entir world commun us.",0,train
460,"regard, propos set issu poverti erad fight poverti one main topic next session unit nation gener assembl hold global summit issues.",0,train
461,clear us socio-econom landscap post-pandem world complet different.,0,test
462,need work basi new approach close cooper common threat secur sustain development.,0,train
463,central role unit nation coordin intern structur need strengthened.,0,train
464,"uzbekistan alway stand readi develop wide-rang mutual benefici partnership countri world, well practic dialogu unit nation institutions.",0,train
465,"thank attention.mr. president,",0,train
466,peac you!,0,train
467,"offer cordial greet you, mr president, deleg take part signific seventy-fifth session unit nation gener assembly. particular, greet secretari general, mr antonio guterres, particip head state government, follow gener debate.",0,train
468,seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation offer fit occas express holi see’ desir organ increasingli serv sign uniti state instrument servic entir human family.,0,train
470,"faced, then, choic two possibl paths. one path lead consolid multilater express renew sens global co-responsibility, solidar ground justic attain peac uniti within human family, god’ plan world. path emphas self-sufficiency, nationalism, protectionism, individu isol  exclud poor, vulner dwell peripheri life. path would certainli detriment whole community, caus self-inflict wound everyone. must prevail.",0,test
472,"along lines, think effect pandem employment, sector alreadi destabil labour market driven increas uncertainti widespread robotization. urgent need find new form work truli capabl fulfil human potenti affirm dignity. order ensur dignifi employment, must chang prevail econom paradigm, seek expand companies’ profits. offer job peopl one main object everi business, one criteria success product activity. technolog progress valuabl necessary, provid serv make people’ work dignifi safe, less burdensom stressful.",0,train
473,"call chang direction. achiev this, alreadi possess necessari cultur technolog resources, social awareness. chang direct require, however, robust ethic framework capabl overcom “today’ widespread quietli grow cultur waste”.",0,train
475,"fact pain see number fundament human right day continu violat impunity. list violat inde lengthy, offer us frighten pictur human abused, wounded, depriv dignity, freedom hope future. part picture, religi believ continu endur everi kind persecution, includ genocide, beliefs. christian victim this: mani brother sister throughout world suffering, forc time flee ancestr lands, cut rich histori culture.",0,train
476,"also admit humanitarian crise becom statu quo, people’ right life, liberti person secur protected. indeed, shown conflict worldwide, use explos weapons, especi popul areas, dramat long-term humanitarian impact. convent weapon becom less less “conventional” “weapon mass destruction”, wreak havoc cities, schools, hospitals, religi sites, infrastructur basic servic need population.",0,train
477,"more, great number peopl forc leav homes. refugees, migrant intern displac frequent find abandon countri origin, transit destination, depriv chanc better situat life families. wors still, thousand intercept sea forcibl return detent camps, meet tortur labour, exploit degrad job deni wage. intolerable, yet intent ignor many!",0,train
480,"“in light present circumstances... nation enabl meet greatest need moment reduction, forgiveness, debt burden balanc sheet poorest nations”.",0,test
481,intern commun ought make everi effort put end econom injustices.,0,train
482,"“when multilater credit organ provid advic variou nations, import keep mind lofti concept fiscal justice, public budget respons indebted and, all, effect promot poorest, make protagonist social network.”",0,train
483,respons offer develop assist poor nation debt relief highli indebt nations.,0,train
484,"“a new ethic presuppos awar need everyon work togeth close tax shelters, avoid evas money launder rob society, well speak nation import defend justic common good interest power compani multinationals.”",0,train
485,"fit time renew architectur intern finance. mr. president,",0,train
486,"five year ago, opportun address gener assembl person seventieth anniversary. visit took place time mark truli dynam multilateralism. moment great hope promis intern community, eve adopt 2030 agenda sustain development. month later, pari agreement climat chang also adopted.",0,train
487,"yet must honestli admit that, even though progress made, promis made five year ago. reiter “we must avoid everi temptat fall declarationist nomin would assuag consciences. need ensur institut truli effect struggl scourges”.",0,train
489,"sure, growth integr ecolog sensit desir action posit step.",0,train
490,"“we must place burden next gener take problem caus previou ones... must serious ask polit alloc honesty, respons courage, human, financi technolog resourc mitig neg effect climat change, well help poorest vulner popul suffer most.”",0,train
492,"million children present unabl return school. mani part world, situat risk lead increas child labour, exploitation, abus malnutrition. sad say, countri intern institut also promot abort one so-cal “essenti services” provid humanitarian respons pandemic. troubl see simpl conveni becom deni exist human life solut problem must solv mother unborn child.",0,train
493,"urg civil author especi attent children deni fundament right dignity, particularli right life schooling. cannot help think appeal courag young woman, malala yousafzai, speak five year ago gener assembly, remind us “one child, one teacher, one book one pen chang world”.",0,train
495,"one goal advanc women. year mark twentyfifth anniversari beij confer women. everi level society, women play import role, offer singular contribut courag promot common good. mani women, however, continu left behind: victim slavery, trafficking, violence, exploit degrad treatment. them, forc live apart families, express fratern closeness. time, appeal greater determin commit fight heinou practic debas women, humanity, silenc lack effect action becom accomplic them.",0,train
496,"must ask princip threat peac secur - poverty, epidemics, terror mani other - effect counter arm race, includ nuclear weapons, continu squander preciou resourc could better use benefit integr develop peopl protect natur environment.",0,train
499,"addition, strife-ridden world need unit nation becom ever effect intern workshop peace. mean member secur council, especi perman members, must act greater uniti determination. regard, recent adopt global cease-fir present crisi nobl step, one demand good part continu implementation. would also reiter import relax intern sanction make difficult state provid adequ support citizens.",0,train
500,god bless all!,0,test
501,"thank you, mr. president.mr. president, excellencies, distinguish deleg friends,",0,train
502,"haunt question remain: would vaccin avail cheapli univers peopl world over? would distribut skew within, across countries, like aris deafen roar that: “onli rich live matter?” good intent unit nation specialis agenc world health organis may nibbl away inequ skew outcom impact like margin unless enforceable, intern rules-bas compact countri major pharmaceut compani deliv univers afford fruit scienc human ingenuity. cannot usual result corpor profit ahead people’ lives, livelihoods, social solidarity, security.",0,train
503,"even if, instanc covid-19, intern commun rise challeng confirm faith good intent without practic work illusion, would episod respons leav pre-exist global order place next, inevitable, pandem arises? irrat danger cycl reconfigrur global consensu mere “build back better” build back optim enduringli humanity’ sake.",0,train
504,"right reason matur reflect teach past 50 year domin human civilization, append off-shoots, explos individu freedom engend huge enlarg personal, financial, technological, social spaces. atomis individu elev appotheosi progress  social solidar becom frayed, tattered, diminish public good. so, along come pandem atomis individu reli prudent collect good behaviour neighbor stay healthy. circl cannot easili squar individualistic, dog-eat-dog social order  and, metaphorically, hell broken loose.",0,train
505,"thus, intern societies, ought current alter condition, build social individual, atomis one  social individu necessarily, ground requisit social solidarity. across nations, too, must initi build fresh compact endur solidarity, caribbean commun  caricom , done much success, despit limit resources. unit nations, specialis agencies, local construct ambitious, renew global compact, world government, genguin commun nation bona fide multilateralism, ground intern law. mere technic exercis profoundli polit one first order revitalis compact efficaci fashion fertilis soil genuin commit among nations. let us thu lift lift human higher!",0,train
506,"regard, power state must roll back unilateralist, unwholesom prejudicial, constraint weaker nations. list long includes: unilateralist sanction  weaponis trade, bank financi system  misus abus so-cal “blacklists” develop countri develop one  unilateralist termin correspond bank relat pure spurious, hypocritical, ground  break intern law, willy-nilly, serv narrowli nationalist interest issue, includ existenti matter climat chang  releg small island develop state expend margin global polit economy.",0,train
507,"absurd contradict employ human right mantra guis unilater action would wil depriv million people, live countri near far, right digniti develop deploy debilit foreign polici tools. immens suffer peopl syria, result conflict choose, geopolit forc exert influence, stand prime exampl paradox humanitarian intervention. similar fashion, converg parallelogram contradictori forc yemen precipit humanitarian crisi monument proportions. syria yemen arguabl two biggest catastroph world requir construct form multilater engag yield people-centr solut full respect intern law. feel sure interest region power yearn peac stabil yemen syria.",0,train
508,"saint vincent grenadin reaffirm solidar palestinian peopl whose daili exist remain mar persist threat illeg annexation. honour palestinian peoples’ long held quest self-determin statehood revisit question full membership unit nation matter long overdue, essenti compon last two-stat solut quest sustain peac middl east. similar vein, construct pragmat intergovernment engag taiwan, respons advoc sustain develop exemplar magnific chines civilization, valid case taiwan’ meaning particip specialis agenc bodi unit nations.",0,train
509,"complex challeng 21st centuri solv militari mean quest hegemony. sell weapon tradit posit broker peace, cannot expect use outdat tool address effect contemporari exingencies. accordingly, saint vincent grenadin reiter import address earnestli question secur council reform — by, among things, expand perman membership includ brother sister african continent, incorpor nuanc perspect small island state continu rotat fixture, upgrad work method august, historically-shackled, bodi reflect realiti modern world. issu continu occupi attent saint vincent grenadin secur council countri forg strong partnership three non-perman member africa, becom known a3+1.",0,train
510,"conclude, reiter that, complex, consequenti overlap challeng face world today resolv inclus multilater solut comprehens develop strategies. admittedly, collect struggl peac prosper easi victories. yet, darkest moments, struggl seem insurmountable, must work togeth uniti solidarity, spite of, precis because, distinct perspect interest necessit “we peoples” work together. embark new decad collect journey, let us craft equit world nation peopl particip meaning measur apportion burden benefit.",0,train
511,"thank you.h.e. mr. volkan bozkir, presid gener assembly,",0,train
512,"h.e. mr. antonio guterres, secretary-general,",0,train
513,"head state, head government,",0,train
514,"author particip 75th session un gener assembly,",0,test
515,"outset, want apolog remov face mask, necessari time pandemic, want greet watch listen us around world.",0,train
516,"gener assembly, 2001, etern command hugo chavez",0,train
517,"said,",0,train
518,"“we come, then, without fear, good faith much optim life, brotherhood, uniti possibl we, leader countries, seek, grasp build togeth real solut real problem quest justic peace.”",0,train
519,"venezuela, believ world must complet revised, great magnifi glass said command chavez  power magnifi glass, world becom bad, stumbl one mistak another. call made command chavez 2001, take sens realiti re-found unit nation organization. arriv 2020, insist need renew paradigms.",0,train
521,"must work save planet. make call achiev highest polit commit fight climat chang realiti urgent priority. recogn import strengthen mitig adapt actions, accord unit nation framework convent climat chang pari agreement. therefor reaffirm import mean implement develop countri carri climat actions. noam chomski recent warned, “there much time left”.",0,train
527,said global attempt har drive 4th industri revolut — think ahead time.,0,train
540,cost inact uncertainty.,0,train
541,ask gener assembl kind futur want live in?,0,train
543,get back basics. go back foundat valu unit nation document enshrin — un charter univers declar human right — fulfil yet- unfulfil promises.,0,train
544,"futur must hold, quot preambl univers declar human rights, “ recognit inher digniti equal inalien right member human family,” truli “foundat freedom, justic peac world.”",0,train
545,valu embrac world over. univers declar human right today univers discourse. valu reflect almost state constitut sinc demis soviet union.,0,train
546,valu actualized.,0,test
547,"lofti ideal aspir intern community. achiev goals. afghanistan, urgent real problem grappl daily.",0,train
548,"take fulfil promis peace, prosperity, dignity, justice, freedom?",0,test
550,"need framework futur present pragmat solut collect address solv five driver turmoil, particularli global terror climat change.",0,train
551,"requir type imagin leadership gave us univers declar human rights, un charter capabl overcam global turmoil inflict world second world war.",0,train
552,"framework place, get back foundat basic unit nation creat address first place.",0,train
553,"unit nation need organ authorities, capabilities, capitals, commit fulfil purpos principl charter.",0,train
554,"would like commend excel secretary-gener guterr progress made far reform agenda un. much go, share respons shoulder effort progress sustain develop goal progress peace, prosper secur across globe.",0,train
555,"afghanistan, move next five year clear plan progress valu un, enshrin constitution, work toward prosperity, secur peac country.",0,train
556,"plan base build market econom development, move aid trade model, increas labor capit product key area competit advantage.",0,train
557,"object self-reliance, move away donor relationship mutual benefici partnerships.",0,train
559,"look close gap weak expos pandemic, strengthen system long-term.",0,train
560,"though face multipl driver turmoil afghanistan, all, peac remain urgent import priority.",0,train
561,"passag preambl charter unit nation encapsul current goal peac afghanistan. want “to save succeed gener scourg war, twice lifetim brought untold sorrow mankind, and... unit strength maintain intern peac security”.",0,train
562,"role unit nation stand share valu throughout peac process absolut critical, thank unit nation support far throughout arduou process. thank un call global ceasefire.",0,train
563,role un intern partner alli continu extrem import negoti team sit across taliban doha.,0,train
566,"excel volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl",0,train
567,excel head state govern,0,train
568,distinguish deleg,0,train
569,ladi gentlemen.,0,test
570,"memori sinc organization’ establish situat head state govern un member states, reason beyond schedule, could person attend gener assembl organization, discuss great topic intern relat seek outlin solut aim resolv main concern mankind ensur peace, secur stabil contin — common home.",0,test
572,"mr. secretari general, pleas allow congratul taken opportun decis maintain dynam function unit nation technolog resourc disposal.",0,test
579,"regard, oblig rapidli build throughout nation territori centr host peopl situat offici quarantine, equip country’ hospit basic equip covid-19-rel medic emerg on, build hospit centr capac treat possibl outbreak pandem relat facilities.",0,test
580,"acknowledg apart efforts, also benefit solidar countries, intern organization, companies, local intern nongovern organ well individu citizen help mitig somehow pandem impact angola, would like thank.",0,test
581,"human virtu alway use critic moment one go through, help immens alway enough solv grassroot problem face consequ complex situat one current experiencing.",0,train
582,therefor would like express appreci g-20 initi demonstr great sensit need collect action view reliev debt develop countri mean cushion burden liabil fall upon group countries.,0,train
583,think fundament view direct invest economi develop countri great equat econom growth development.,0,train
586,vision support idea multilater alway present approach taken regard press intern issu face world.,0,train
588,"thus, think within spirit focu endeavour search fair long last solut problem middl east, secur council pertin resolut matter, well afflict african continent, conflict instabl still prevail, case libya, sahel region other conflict minor scale region continent.",0,train
589,"worth recogn natur secur problem africa, mani cases, associ phenomenon intern terrorism, expans religi fundament post-elect conflict requir redoubl surveil attent unit nations, without forget support render countri face circumstances.",0,train
590,"light aforegoing, unit nation seek interpret imparti underli factor domest polit tension aris elect process assum posit ignor legitim establish government, strengthen capac interven resolv problem ensur normal function institutions.",0,train
593,thank attent wish 75th session unit nation may attain goals.,0,train
594,"thank muchmr. presid gener assembly,",0,train
595,"distinguish delegates,",0,test
596,"let begin warmli congratul excel ambassador volkan bozkir turkey, elect prestigi post gener assembl president.",0,train
597,"mr. president, albania honour serve, leadership, vice- presid 75th session gener assembly, repres eastern european group.",0,test
598,"fulli count commit support partnership, throughout histor session.",0,train
600,75th anniversari unit nation histor mileston serv time reflect strengthen un make effect address global unpreced challeng societi facing.,0,train
601,"covid-19 pandem plung world deep health econom crisis. socio-econom consequ certainli play mani year come, unpredict consequ global peac security.",0,train
603,"food security, poverti eradication, econom development, climat chang gender equal stake, exacerb exist vulner inequ within among countries.",0,train
605,global respons coronaviru pandem test multilater expos limit exist intern institutions. also demonstr alarm consequ falter global cooperation.,0,train
607,"unit nation centr inclus effect multilateralism, intern organizations, financi institutions, civil society, busi community, stakeholders, oper closer institut links.",0,train
609,"critic moment, must respond fear hope peopl serve.",0,test
611,"would like take opportun commend unit nation mobil support term person protect equip medic suppli 130 countries, well ongo effort acceler research develop vaccine, afford access peopl across globe.",0,train
613,"grate friendli nation help us time need, provid financi in-kind support ongo reconstruct efforts.",0,train
614,"also grate support receiv unit nations, prove true partner.",0,train
615,"agenc engag day one. rescu relief expert deploy immediately, support nation author alongsid partner europ elsewhere.",0,train
616,"covid-19 hit. world health organ accompani respons everi step way. jointly, un also prepar socio-econom respons plan ensur coordin action across un, effici support nation response.",0,train
617,"albania work hard achiev unit nation global goal reduc greenhous ga emiss 45 per cent next decade, net zero emiss 2050, accord pari agreement.",0,train
618,"addition, adopt strategi climat chang mitig action plan greenhous ga emissions.",0,test
620,"import object strategi protect roma egyptian communities, person disabilities, potenti vulner margin groups.",0,train
621,"progress also made term gender equality, number women work state institut public administr grow day.",0,train
623,"undoubtedli global threat, affect especi countri fragil economies.",0,train
625,"capac chair osce, albania strongli support call unit nation secretary-gener global ceasefire.",0,test
627,"albania firmli believ multilater key tackl global challenges. offer proactiv contribut intern peac secur region experience, key factor peace, stability, security.",0,train
628,"take active, constructive, matur approach act respons strengthen multilater partnership cooperation.",0,train
629,seiz opportun call esteem nation gener assembl support albania’ secur council bid 2022-2023.,0,train
630,"today’ complex interconnect world, modest countri like albania may expect compet economi materi assets.",0,train
631,"can, nonetheless, contribut enrich world precious: identity, history, culture, tradit values.",0,train
632,one tradit valu cherish it’ uniqu interreligi harmoni reign albania.,0,train
633,"although albanian tradit belong differ religi — peac live side side, sinc time immemorial. pope franci visit albania 2014, spoke “religi fraternity”.",0,train
635,"preciou heritag interreligi cultur toler defin nation. except stori albanian risk live protect rescu jew holocaust remark express spirit tolerance, compass respect toward fellow human beings.",0,train
636,albania proud offer world messag co exist dialogu religions.,0,train
638,european union access continu albania’ import strateg objective.,0,train
639,earlier year welcom eu council polit decis open access talk albania.,0,train
640,fulli awar need fulfil pend benchmark first intergovernment conference.,0,train
641,"process requir concert effort nation level, determin govern leadership head way toward genuin sustain reforms.",0,train
643,express sincer gratitud european institut member state assist recov earthquak struck us covid-19 pandem repercussions.,0,train
644,"albania continu fulli align eu foreign polici region, take pride firm european euro-atlant allianc share values.",0,train
645,albania awar oblig respons member intern community.,0,train
646,"ongo effort build peac security, albania contribut troops, umbrella un, eu nato, differ peacekeep oper south sudan, kosova, bosnia herzegovina, mali afghanistan.",0,train
647,"primari goal interest ensur last peac stabil region, western balkans.",0,test
650,"welcom agreement econom normal kosova serbia, broker guarante presid unit states, donald trump.",0,train
652,"countri seiz opportun conclud final legal bind agreement mutual recognit full normal relations, mediat european union.",0,train
653,albania strongli believ republ kosova export secur stabil balkans.,0,train
655,kosova today member mani intern organ region initiatives.,0,test
658,"thank kind attention!mr. president,",0,train
659,"excellencies,",0,train
662,countri suffer consequ pandem  viru know borders. want pass affect extend sympathi famili unfortun lost love ones.,0,train
664,"23 march, secretari gener call ceasefir put end hostil throughout world, ask us join forc pandem facilit work humanitarians. “the furi viru illustr folli war... silenc guns... let us take inspir coalit dialogu slowli take shape among rival parti enabl joint approach covid-19”, mr. antonio guterr urged. appeal good sens hope permanent, andorra align fulli call.",0,train
665,"similar way, unit nation spare effort plan offer respons help pave way recoveri countri pandem wreak havoc, countri massiv destruct broad sector economi long-lasting. respons must underpin sustain inclus type develop leav nobodi behind.",0,train
668,"specif terms, world cannot sustainable, sustain growth without activ particip women everi level. twenty-f year sinc beij platform adopted, mani element still need built base. longer toler vulner endur women, exacerb pandemic, rang violenc suffer discrimin basic right access health education. must use mean necessari prevent global disord caus covid-19 use roll back rights. need move forward agenda regress women. time  opportun give full mean beij declar platform action, ambiti plan promot women’ right establish thu far. and, accordingly, must take advantag moment rebuild approach crisi gender perspect wherebi women girl exercis freedoms, realiz right particip decision-making.",0,test
669,"hand, rebuild covid-19, children must protect government actions, especi within area education, understood fundamental, univers indivis right is. surely, better weapon help overcom discrimin prejudic make sure children access education. educ take form train inspir principl human rights, divers integration, respect align nature. need understand function educ respons societi whole, respons adult live interact children young people.",0,train
671,"again, would like reaffirm country’ commit intern commun seek build momentum necessari promot qualiti educ mechan guarante equal opportunities.",0,train
676,"initi support three pillars: welfar cohesion, econom innovation, allianc change, want achiev transparency, participation, proximity, effici equality.",0,train
681,"far ideal world, know must face challeng persist conflict still resolved, bloodi scenarios, imbalanc world poverti disappeared, famin increase, access health univers climat chang clearest sign structur defici  short, world univers declar human right sever read applications. must pull togeth revert situation, work open, integrated, particip inclus posit creat multilater organizations.",0,train
683,"andorra would like use assembl firmli reiter commit unit nations, agenc multilateralism, cooperation, inclus solut uniqu organ offer us. valu come togeth form solidar way help us overcom phase human still full uncertainties.",0,train
684,"ever, country, true record commit peace, stand besid unit nation seek reshap multilater order help us meet remain challeng deal possibl changes, see health crisi opportun put end model develop unsustain global run course.",0,train
685,"moment make sure solidar prevail aspects. seventy-f year on, need awar ever spirit led birth unit nations.",0,train
686,"thank much.mr. president,",0,train
687,"outset, would like thank excel mr. tijjani muhammad- band distinguish leadership previou session, look forward work offic presid gener assembl session.",0,train
690,"one start point continu focu solv exist polit crise prevent new conflict emerging, especi spread pandemic. countri continu work region intern partner restor secur stabil ensur affect countri take lead develop solut meet legitim aspir peoples.",0,train
692,"context, must stress import uphold purpos principl charter unit nation continu core uae’ foreign policy, particularli pursuit restor stabil region. repeatedli warn expansionist ambit state region, consist call upon intern commun end interfer intern affair state hold account financ it.",0,train
698,"maintain progress achiev da’esh syria iraq requir continu effort rebuild liber areas, strengthen rule law areas, protect commun extrem terrorism. support econom assist also provid sudan. also import prevent interfer sudan’ intern affair stop extremist group exploit situat threaten secur sudan neighbor states.",0,train
699,"call establish independ palestinian state border 1967 east jerusalem capit line relev intern resolut arab intern consensu remain firm demand. countri made persist effort use avail diplomat channel affirm total reject annex palestinian territory, warn impact parti secur region.",0,train
700,"sign histor peac accord israel, support american efforts, countri abl freez annex decis open broad prospect achiev comprehens peac region. hope peac accord provid opportun palestinian isra re-engag negoti achiev peace. posit toward support palestinian peopl achiev two-stat solut firm.",0,train
701,work ensur peac accord open new intellectu horizon region creat prosper path futur gener deserv stabl region better realiti war poverty.,0,train
704,"must continu focus coordin action provid humanitarian econom assist state affect conflict issu climat chang pandemic. countri forefront countri respond impact pandem provid assistance, support intern institutions, send aid commun around world. critic times, state must set differ asid focu strengthen cooper develop provid access vaccin treatment peoples. also encourag start plan recoveri phase revit global economy. must ensur suppli chain interrupted, key element achiev global food security.",0,train
705,"countri adopt effective, scientif program contain novel coronaviru pandemic. commit appli strict prevent measur stop spread virus, conduct largest possibl number tests, share result partners. advanc digit infrastructur uae facilit resumpt work remot studi maintain safeti people. addit provid local econom aid package, abl strengthen capac health system, support intern research pandemic, prepar potenti futur pandemics.",0,train
706,"futur prepared new country, follow approach sinc establishment. today, look forward fiftieth anniversari union confid optimism. effort culmin creation sustain economi signific achievements, includ launch probe mar year. uae continu encourag innovation, technology, bridg knowledg gap peoples. uae also continu advoc empower youth women provid equal opportunities. additionally, need continu build peac secur commun strengthen coexist dialogu among religion cultures.",0,train
707,"inspir preach example, come ratifi call whole world recreat multilater base solidarity.",0,train
709,"pope franci call us, especi leader gather occasion, think emerg better wors crisis.",0,train
710,"argentina one found state unit nation 75 year ago. today, experienc health crisi planetari dimens invit us new beginning.",0,train
711,look forward continu work partner achiev share vision creat peac prosper world — world capabl meet challenges.,0,train
712,"thank you.mr. secretary-general, mr. president, member honour assembly:",0,train
713,"recogn signific respons associ membership secur council extens challeng council faces, affirm uae work toward solv import issu confront state resolv determination. so, guid understand crises, experi arab region, close relationship member states. countri continu call involv region organ find perman solut crises, count support achiev goals.",0,test
714,time global indiffer global solidar multipl dimensions.,0,test
715,"sinc establishment, countri commit intern law, un charter, un resolutions. address seriou challeng region, countri embrac multilater tool reduc escalation, resolv crises, develop last comprehens polit solutions. context, pleas announc candidatur non-perman seat secur council period 2022-2023. countri follow step principl upon found maintain intern peac secur cooper member council.",0,train
716,"abl manufactur artifici respir combin compon knowledg differ region planet, abl dream build “non-artifici respirators” time post-pandemic.",0,train
717,"pool effort doctors, researchers, investor scientif system around planet discov vaccin prevent covid-19, abl dream build vaccin social injustice, environment predat discrimin forms.",0,train
720,"immedi relief provid famili busi multipl measures, state present active.",0,train
721,"spirit solidarity, argu vaccin produc prevent diseas must global public good, access nation equit manner.",0,test
722,support resolut adopt end gener assembl made capac avail vaccin research production.,0,train
723,"set goal govern put argentina back feet. together, put world back feet.",0,train
724,requir us recogn import balance.,0,train
725,"balanc restor prioriti multilater system, start bottom reach everyone.",0,train
726,must architect new common house.,0,train
727,"pandemic, rais issu need reform unit nation secur council. agreement revit world trade organization. rais issu crisi bretton wood institutions, demonstr shortcom respond 2008-2009 financi crisis. part multilater post-war architecture.",0,test
728,"pandem also put tradit metric crisi regard determin access develop resources. indic commonli use classifi need countries, per capita income, account divers inequ specif exist within country.",0,train
729,"work million domest worker unpaid caregivers, major women, made invisible.",0,train
731,aforement indic essenti revit unit nation enabl respond mandat created.,0,train
733,"point need deep reflection, goe beyond respons pandemic.",0,train
735,"commit environment agenda requir provis consider financi resources, capacity-build technolog transfer develop countries, base principl common differenti responsibilities.",0,train
736,"countri commit fair transit toward comprehens sustain development. fair transit entail gradual approach, strengthen product competit economi job creation.",0,train
738,"one safe planet fire, flood poisoned.",0,test
742,"negoti imf address similarli respons manner, respect commit jeopard condit enabl econom recoveri construct path inclus sustain development.",0,test
743,"5 year ago, 10 septemb 2015, gener assembl adopt resolut 69 319, entitl “basic principl sovereign debt restructur processes”.",0,train
744,posit gener assembl matter set preced govern intern financ recogn sovereign econom right face abus extortionist behaviour.,0,train
745,"aim ensur debt restructur process reason predictable, base good faith, transparency, fair treatment, sovereign immun jurisdict execution, legitimacy, sustain major restructuring.",0,train
747,"countri servic debt peopl left without health, education, safeti capac grow.",0,train
748,also balanc priorit human right everyth else.,0,train
750,"memory, truth justic guid institut democracy, well respect divers inclusion.",0,train
752,"never before, human condit demand solidar us. cannot remain passiv face sanction includ econom blockad serv oppress peopl amid humanitarian crisis.",0,train
753,fight form discrimin consequ commit right vulner person group suffer long-term discrimin part argentin state polici includ mani initi argentina support leads.,0,train
755,"society, achiev substant equal men women prioriti central pillar argentin democracy.",0,train
757,"govern decid strengthen nation action mechan care women victim violence, addit implement gender approach social labour protect measur promot co-respons fairer distribut unpaid domest work.",0,train
758,commit alreadi evident. argentina recogn unit nation rank countri implement highest number measur gender perspect pandemic.,0,train
759,i	wish reaffirm argentina condemn terror form manifest favour address within framework multilater forum alway accord rule law respect human rights.,0,train
761,also ask intern commun compli request contain interpol red notic event presenc accus person territori — someth argentina never ceas demand.,0,test
762,"conclusion, would like reaffirm legitim imprescript sovereignti right argentin republ malvina islands, south georgia island south sandwich island surround maritim areas, integr part argentina’ nation territori illeg occupi unit kingdom 187 years.",0,test
764,"request remain forc renew multipl occasions, recent adopt consensu new resolut matter special committe decolon 5 august.",0,test
767,ask secretary-gener renew effort mission good offic entrust organization. confid mission great assist us fulfil requir intern community.,0,train
768,wish bid farewel honour assembl urg us seiz histor opportun unit societi address unpreced crisis.,0,train
769,"coronaviru pandem taken live one million peopl pain aftermath mark increas poverty, hunger inequality, put us test again.",0,train
770,"hope solidarity, dialogu cooper nations, abl achieve, continu way respond challeng face humankind.",0,train
771,"thank much.mr. presid gener assembly,",0,train
772,"year celebr 75th anniversari foundat unit nations, born ash second world war. rememb sacrific grandparents, tribul peac futur humankind.",0,train
773,"today first time ever un gener assembl held virtual format. matter uncomfort undesir is, meet format prove determin humankind continu cooperation, show dedic commit un multilater cooperation.",0,train
775,"appreci primari role un, particular world health organ undp, global respons covid-19. grate partner countri support armenia part, extend share help friends. collect effort import manifest intern solidarity.",0,train
776,"spirit collect pledg leav one behind, share convict equit access essenti health technolog product combat viru global priority, one, includ live conflict areas, deni limit access remedi mitig impact covid-19.",0,train
777,"likewise, vaccin covid-19 global public good access afford peopl without discrimination.",0,train
778,"want stress armenia’ unequivoc support secretary- general’ appeal global ceasefir un secur council resolut 2532  2020  covid-19, demand gener immedi cessat hostil situations.",0,train
779,"global effort direct cope covid-19, wit deplor attempt destabil peac secur region. juli azerbaijan ventur yet anoth act aggression. arm forc azerbaijan initi militari offens borderlin tavush region armenia.",0,train
780,"armenia call immedi de-escal agre end hostil hour outbreak, azerbaijan continu target civilian popul infrastructure, attack armenia’ borderlin area employ artillery, heavi weaponry, uav’s, larg infantri units. moreover, azerbaijani author also escal war threats, cross imagin boundari civil world. azerbaijan’ ministri defens even threaten launch missil strike nuclear power plant armenia, tantamount threat “nuclear terrorism”.",0,train
781,juli battl shatter myth azerbaijan’ militari superior valid obviou militari solut nagorno-karabakh conflict. long overdu azerbaijani leadership acknowledg fact renounc use forc threat forc context conflict resolution.,0,train
782,"armenia reaffirm commit exclus peac settlement nagorno-karabakh conflict. right self-determin peopl nagorno-karabakh basi peac process, recogn intern commun intern mediators, osc minsk group co-chairs, particular. virtu right, peopl nagorno-karabakh abl determin statu without limitation. end, elect author abl take part negotiations. aspir need peopl live conflict zone becom prioriti negoti agenda.",0,train
783,ensur comprehens secur peopl artsakh expos existenti physic secur threat anoth key prioriti armenia.,0,train
784,"freedom, democraci respect basic human right integr requisit environ conduc achiev last comprehens settlement conflict. legitim elect govern genuin express interest peopl move toward compromise. author azerbaijan consist use conflict legitim long grip power. decades, armenia armenian use enemi leadership azerbaijan justifi low live standards, absenc democraci systemat violat human right country.",0,train
785,"ceasefir must strengthen concret action ground. renounc bellicos rhetor hate speech, expand osc monitor line contact borders, establish investig mechan ceasefir violat set direct commun line command ground essenti regard.",0,test
787,"despit challeng face year, armenia continu engag intern oper preserv intern peac security. armenian peacekeep serv lebanon, mali, kosovo, afghanistan contribut secur stabil there. readi expand particip peacekeep oper auspic un.",0,train
788,armenia priorit effect implement 2030 agenda sustain development.,0,train
789,"juli 10, 2020, armenia present second voluntari nation review  vnr  sustain develop goals. theme year’ high-level polit forum — acceler action transform pathway — perfectli reflect armenia’ nation prioriti polici past two year sinc non-viol velvet revolut 2018.",0,train
790,"power strong popular mandate, govern determin advanc ambiti reforms, aim build competit inclus democrat societi strong institutions. reform agenda embrac everi area public life put strong emphasi human rights, rule law, combat corruption, independ judiciari improv public administration. pursu large-scal econom social develop reli technological, environment educ high standards. week govern launch armenia transform strategi 2050 16 mega goals, base bold vision modern progress.",0,train
791,"75th anniversari unit nations, compel recogn mani exist challeng human digniti human rights. member human right council, armenia continu strongli contribut intern cooper protect promot human rights.",0,test
792,"domest polici foreign polici agenda, armenia underlin import prioriti promot equal right activ particip women youth polit public life.",0,train
793,protect women’ right conflict zone particip stage conflict resolut critical. practic implement provis un secur council resolut 1325  2000  amongst import prioriti government.,0,train
795,appreci strong intern support express also human right council armenia’ effort advanc effect intern prevent agenda.,0,test
796,"armenia promot platform inclus dialogu among governments, parliaments, intern organizations, academia civil societi genocid prevent agenda. “global forum crime genocide” held armenia, becom one regular platform dialogue.",0,train
797,"75th anniversari unit nation fit occas reaffirm strength three interconnect pillar peace, develop human rights. ongo conflicts, persist radic intolerance, transnat global challeng continu reveal collect vulner interdependence. ever, need effect multilater therefor strong reform unit nation better future, peac secur gener come.",0,train
798,thank you!mr presid,0,train
799,secretary-gener,0,train
800,happi 75th anniversari,0,train
801,"collectively, member state unit nation fail respons one planet duti peoples, one world.",0,test
802,"past 74 session gener assembly, mani pledg made, make intern commun less inequit  mani commit given lift-up poor vulner  mani declar issu end scourg war.",0,train
803,"yet, 74 year pass sinc first session gener assembly, 10 januari 1946, world experienc brief effort deliv pledges, commitments, declarations.",0,train
804,effort vital.,0,test
805,made difference.,0,train
806,"them, mankind made progress path human equality, environment safety, global security.",0,test
807,"but, despit them, benefit wider inclus intern cooper sacrif powerful, altar attain narrow exclus nation advantage.",0,train
808,"never before, world ampl technic financi resourc address challeng face mankind, includ ravag climat change, pandemics, food security, malnutrition, hunger poverty.",0,train
809,"problem is, resourc concentr capit nations, retreat contribut meet challeng overcom good humanity.",0,test
810,"assembl held, develop countri — particularli small state — trapped, downward spiral econom declin environment degrad create, control.",0,train
811,"trend identifi today, programmes, polici offer hope narrow gap rich poor, let alon bridg it.",0,test
812,"world witnessing, march richest nation away oblig global good.",0,test
813,"drum nation drown cri global solidar without which, world’ peace, progress prosper never assured, principl upon unit nation organ founded, ever satisfied.",0,train
814,futur want. futur deserve.,0,train
815,ever time nation world jointli confront threat — time now.,0,train
817,global sweep univers dangers.,0,train
818,visit public health emerg nation  wreak econom havoc them.,0,train
819,"peril pandem loom larg across globe, jump across divid nation border defi belief rich nation survive, poorer nation succumb.",0,test
820,"pandem ad danger climat chang is, pernici covid-19 pandem reach, insidi impact.",0,train
821,"poor vulner alreadi first suffer econom impact covid-19 climat change, rich spared.",0,train
823,everi nation world marketplac others.,0,test
824,chain suppli sale global.,0,train
825,"countri inextric interlink tourism busi air sea transportation, also, good servic buy supply, includ scienc technology.",0,train
827,"inter-dependent, howev larg small.",0,train
829,"yet, even though countri caribbean among greatest victim profligaci others, relat creation climat chang effect  and, although economi among worst impact covid-19 pandemic, whose creation play part  deni voic intern decision-mak subject unfairli others.",0,train
831,"erod gain made country, antigua barbuda where, januari year, set achiev 6.2 per cent growth, addit averag growth rate 5 per cent previou six years.",0,train
834,"case small country, deni loan intern financi institut  ifi  skew per capita incom criterion, appli policy-mak boards.",0,train
835,"result that, apart line credit inter-american",0,train
836,"develop bank, yet consummated, antigua barbuda receiv one cent intern financi institutions, help us meet enorm challeng brought much larger countri knees.",0,train
837,"case, approach pari club offici debt holder particularli callou  absolut insensit unpreced global pandemic.",0,train
838,"pari club found possibl agre suspens debt payments, debt rescheduling, debt forgiveness, allow countri like mine opportun cope extraordinari challeng confront us play part creating.",0,train
839,"amidst, circumst dwindl revenu extraordinari expenses, pari club demand repay decad old delinqu loan simpli cannot repaid time.",0,train
840,"worse, sympathi dire condit face, pari club block imf consid financi assist debt servic relief, provid mani others, unless subject programm would lead increas debt servic burden even auster condit peopl present exists.",0,train
841,"that, cannot certainli entertain.",0,test
843,"nonetheless, peopl countri move resilience, brave resolutely.",0,train
844,"reaffirm commit multilateralism, part tackl covid-19 within boundari contribut multilater action.",0,train
845,"proud that, despit challeng confronted, antigua barbuda success manag covid-19 pandemic, quickli detect treat infect person effect contact trace prevent commun spread.",0,train
846,antigua barbuda record three death sinc pandem started.,0,train
848,"govern also invest modern medic facilities, includ well-equip infecti diseas centre, man trained, qualifi experienc personnel.",0,train
849,"addition, expand upgrad health facil three bed per 1,000 popul improv tertiari health care services.",0,train
850,"achiev despit inadequ assist intern financi institutions, mitig impact pandem economy.",0,test
853,"unfortunately, econom develop far achiev revers littl prospect recovery.",0,train
854,"world want  proactiv financi intervent ifi’ need now, tomorrow  tomorrow’ intervent may late.",0,train
855,"alicia barcena, execut secretari un econom commiss latin america caribbean point out:",0,train
858,"distinguish delegates, futur want requir establish new era multilateralism, base premis life everi human matters.",0,train
859,"that, live lives, everi human given opportun prosper — free intimidation, hunger, malnutrition, diseas war.",0,train
860,nation — unit — affirm commit goal work dilig achiev it.,0,train
861,unit nation need.,0,train
862,"thank you.mr president,",0,test
863,histor unusu gather gener assembly.,0,train
864,"gather great citi new york, among people, across nation earth, togeth face storm.",0,train
865,global pandem claim live least 1 million soul know plung world global econom recession.,0,train
866,"event remind us share humanity, interdepend and, indeed, valu common hope.",0,train
867,"get education, job, livelihood.",0,train
868,"safe, healthi free.",0,test
869,live clean unpollut environment.,0,train
870,"time crisis, actual opportun share human overwhelm differ usual beset us focu pursu common hope. gather.",0,train
871,"speak today sydney, australia’ largest citi ancient home gadig people.",0,train
872,"one australia’ mani indigen peopl care contin 60,000 years. world’ oldest continu live indigen culture, acknowledg elder past, present futur make remark sydney today.",0,train
873,australia contend storm global covid-19 pandem recess great determination.,0,test
874,"aim simple, deni viru destruct seek visit upon us, upon live livelihoods.",0,train
875,"sadly, 800 australian lost live covid-19. compar term fare better grate that.",0,train
876,covid-19 case fatal rate fraction across globe.,0,train
877,"economi spare blow recession, first almost 30 year australia, impact far less almost everi develop economi world.",0,train
878,almost half job lost viru earli alreadi recovered. australia get job.,0,train
879,nation covidsaf action plan straight forward.,0,train
880,secur border earli consistently.,0,train
881,entrench covidsaf behaviour commun economy.,0,train
883,"build ensur strong testing, tracing, outbreak contain capabilities, shut viru down, take hold.",0,train
885,"provid econom lifelin million australians, famili businesses, lost job livelihood result recess incom invest support worth 15 per cent gdp.",0,train
887,"done consist principl open, liber democracy, respect digniti everi individual, everi citizen, everi life.",0,test
888,"australia, also mind wonder pacif famili pandemic, wantoks, vuvale, whanau, particularli island nation south west pacific.",0,train
889,australia singl largest develop partner nations.,0,train
890,"we’v provid person protect equipment, test equipment, medic expertise, we’r maintain essenti servic humanitarian corridor expert suppli get out.",0,train
891,"southeast asia, we’r also provid much-need equip expertise, well support collabor develop vaccine.",0,train
892,we’v contribut $80 million gavi covax advanc market commitment.,0,train
893,"come vaccine, australia’ view clear.",0,train
894,whoever find vaccin must share it.,0,train
895,"global responsibility, it’ moral responsibility, vaccin share far wide.",0,test
896,"might see short term advantage, even profit.",0,train
897,"assur anyon may think along lines, human long memori very, sever judge.",0,train
898,australia’ pledg clear: find vaccin share it.,0,train
899,that’ pledg must make.,0,train
900,"home, australian effort produc provid vaccin citizenry, sovereignli produced, vaccin safe avail we’v invest $1.7 billion task.",0,train
901,"includ commit ensur neighbour pacif part south east asia also access safe, effect afford vaccine.",0,train
902,"world health organ vital role, ensur vaccine, peopl around world get access it.",0,train
904,"face global health threat, remind import multilater cooperation.",0,train
905,"acknowledg effort contain spread virus, includ indo-pacif region.",0,train
906,i’m pleas establish independ panel evalu global response.,0,train
907,also clear mandat identifi zoonot sourc covid-19 viru transmit humans.,0,train
908,australia strongli advoc review.,0,train
909,viru inflict calam world peoples. must understand happen purpos prevent happen again.,0,train
910,"resolut put world health assembl may, record 145 countri co-sponsors.",0,test
911,"tri control spread covid-19, also need shine spotlight danger disinformation.",0,test
912,"disinform cost lives, creat climat fear division.",0,train
913,"goe australia’ valu belief free, open society.",0,train
914,"recent work unit nation co-author statement counter widespread disinformation, one sign 120 countries.",0,train
915,acknowledg un bodi also make vital contributions.,0,train
916,world food programm transport much-need medic equip humanitarian suppli across globe.,0,train
917,un develop programm send food nation dire need.,0,test
918,"fact, un fulfil high purpose, purpos 75 year ago brought world togeth unit hope, goodwill.",0,test
919,"mr president, 75 year remark milestone.",0,train
920,"course, much chang sinc 1945.",0,train
921,"un charter signed, 51 countri listed.",0,test
922,"australia proud one proud role play sinc within un, present day.",0,train
923,"today, 193 un member states.",0,train
924,that’ good thing.,0,train
925,voices. ideas. partners.,0,train
926,"voic challeng come complexity, negotiation, processes, bureaucraci would test organisation.",0,train
927,"75, know un, like human serves, nation form it, perfect.",0,train
928,"backdrop, think next 75 year look like un, structures, function multilater generally.",0,train
929,want multilater institut continu deliv us nations.,0,train
930,"we’r commit ensur fit purpose, they’r effective, they’r open transpar and, importantly, account sovereign state form them.",0,train
931,"un members, committees, processes, institut officials.",0,train
932,"author efficaci deriv free participation, contributions, cooper collabor sovereign state compris unit nations, common purpose, pursu common hope.",0,train
933,know sovereignti doesn’t mean turn inward though.,0,train
934,"valu rule protect sovereignty, peac security, curb excess use power.",0,train
935,australian also prize respect intern law peac resolut disput dialogue.,0,train
936,"includ ensur compet territori maritim claim base on, determin line with, intern law, includ unit nation convent law sea.",0,train
937,"outward-looking, sovereign, trade nation, australia also valu rule institut enabl intern trade.",0,train
938,"know trade creat wealth bring nation together. make us prosperous, us.",0,train
939,won’t retreat downward spiral protection australia.,0,train
940,we’r lead effort reform world trade organization.,0,train
941,"we’r advoc trade rule predictable, transpar non-discriminatory.",0,train
942,we’r help design first-ev set global digit trade rule keep pace modern realities.,0,test
943,we’r work hard preserv crucial element wto’ disput settlement system trade rule continu enforced.,0,train
944,"australia also reli heavili intern standard un technic bodi set, especi area like aviation, telecommunications, health.",0,train
945,"issu vital prosperity, want play bigger role alongsid busi civil societi set relev effici standards.",0,train
946,"need make sure standard serv countri rather singl power, develop line fundament principl global order.",0,train
947,"australia help shape norm emerg issues, also.",0,train
948,"like ensur state abid agre rule cyber space, maintain peac outer space, manag critic miner resources.",0,train
949,australia also commit ongo counter-prolifer efforts.,0,train
950,play major role negoti establish,0,train
951,"comprehens nuclear-test-ban treati organ 1980 1990s, see critic pillar intern peac secur today.",0,train
952,"signatori kyoto pari accord reduc carbon emissions, effectively. recent australia beat kyoto target commit 430 million tonn c02 abatement.",0,train
953,"2017 mid-2020, $30 billion invest renew australia.",0,train
954,"2019 saw invest three times, renew per capita rate countri like germany, china, france.",0,train
955,"across 2019 2020, australia add 12.6 gw renew capacity, that’ four time largest power station australia. nearli one four household rooftop solar systems.",0,train
956,"we’v alway believ values, it’ make us are.",0,train
958,australia one eight countri involv draft univers declar human rights. we’r proud role.,0,train
959,"today, we’r serv member unit nation human right council.",0,test
960,we’r first countri pacif region serv body.,0,train
961,"term end year, we’r pleas serv i’m proud we’v rais voic heard import issu like right women girls, right indigen peoples, global abolit death penalty.",0,train
962,australia continu bring influenc bear make sure respond interest member need time.,0,train
963,"mr president, 1945 defin year human history.",0,train
964,year second world war ended.,0,train
965,year unit nation founded.,0,test
966,year human found hope amidst despair.,0,train
967,year one hardest sinc then.,0,train
968,"let resolv also undiminish begin unit nation commit again, together, realis common hope bind us together.mr. president! excellencies! ladi gentlemen,",0,train
969,"75 year ago, world cautious rose horror destruct second world war. human experienc darkest abyss racial hate, cruelti violence. austria fulli awar respons regard.",0,train
970,devast suffer also hope. nation came togeth break endless circl violenc despair mark human histori centuries. vision world peac receiv institut form.,0,train
971,"sinc creation, unit nation work progress humanity. made planet safer set improv global standard human rights, rule law, accountability, conflict prevention, peacekeep disarmament.",0,test
973,ladi gentlemen!,0,train
974,"organization, un free faults. unit nation often side-lin solv conflicts. secur council often fail achiev consensu bring peac world’ worst crises. overal — compar today’ standard 75 year ago, exampl children’ education, women’ rights, child mortality, access clean drink water extrem poverti hunger, un realli proud achievements.",0,train
975,"however, continu face numer threats, would familiar meet 1945:",0,test
976,"¥	dozen arm conflicts,",0,train
977,"¥	nearli 80 million forcibl displac persons, well",0,train
978,"¥	terrorism, polit repress extrem poverty.",0,train
979,also new emerg threats:,0,train
980,"¥	cyber warfar risk fail technolog governance,",0,train
981,"¥	bioterrorism,",0,train
982,¥	new geopolit tension due increasingli polycentr,0,train
983,global system,0,train
984,¥	and climat chang potenti futur super-crisis.,0,train
985,"present, one threat, however, tower them: spread covid-19. affect everyone, everywher time. pandem chang way live way work.",0,train
986,"look gener debate. would prefer speak gener assembl hall instead austria. least honour address today un headquart vienna. would prefer meet person colleagu around world rather via video telephone. pandem depriv us one essenti tool intern relations: enrich person encount amongst colleagues. thus, undertak even effort keep line commun open!",0,train
987,covid-19 taught us hard way much take grant vulner believe.,0,train
988,"¥	instead enjoy liberti freeli move contin within europe, pandem forc us grappl travel restrictions. seen tip iceberg pandemic’ social econom impact. lot progress reach sustain develop goals, achiev past decad endang today.",0,train
989,¥	nearli 24 million children young peopl drop access school next year due pandemic.,0,test
990,"¥	covid-19 trigger sever recess almost century. see record neg number econom growth, unemploy inequality. intern relations, pandem fuel fire exist geopolit conflicts, cast shadow onto secur threats.",0,train
991,secretary-gener antonio guterr said “the warn light flashing”. indeed: geopolit trend present pandem gain momentum:,0,train
992,"¥	re-emerg nationalism, protection populism,",0,test
993,¥	decreas trust intern system,0,train
994,¥	increas dissemin misinform “altern facts”.,0,train
995,"pandem proven fals inform spread faster virus. travel speed thought. time evidenc base decisionmak crucial, wit eros trust experts, scienc technology.",0,train
996,"more: increas number peopl see pandem clear indic world whole develop wrong direction. instinctively, reject advanc technolog medic field, science, commun business.",0,train
997,"technolog progress jump ahead, left part popul behind. grow tension new technolog societi challeng polit nation well intern level. new technolog seem partial overburden societies. buzzword human downgrading, cyber crime, trade data protect person data privaci come mind.",0,test
998,"list would, however, incomplet without warn autonom weapon system — machin power decide, live dies. scienc fiction, fast becom realiti — realiti secretary- gener rightli call “polit unaccept moral repugnant”.",0,train
999,"act now, surviv civilian conflict zone determin algorithm constraint laid intern humanitarian law becom redund decis taken killer-robot without human control ethic concerns.",0,test
1000,"austria organ intern confer vienna next year address urgent issue. covid-19 permitting, invit participate!",0,train
1001,call new digit human need one reflection: today intern day total elimin nuclear weapons.,0,train
1003,"fight covid-19 overshadow everyth else, conflict crise around world simpli disappeared. war humanitarian crise afraid virus! contrary, mani even aggrav pandemic.",0,train
1004,must ensur crise obscur shadow covid-19.,0,test
1005,¥	yemen still ravag worst humanitarian crisi time.,0,train
1006,¥	libya still suffer protract conflict manifest disregard un arm embargo.,0,train
1007,"¥	the joint comprehens plan action iran hang thread, led spiral toughen positions.",0,train
1008,"furthermore, new crise unfold midst pandemic.",0,test
1009,¥	lebanon continu danger downward slide.,0,test
1010,¥	the eastern mediterranean seen sharp increas tension due illeg activ turkey could destabil whole region.,0,train
1011,"¥	and belarus, leadership final accept geni chang bottl cannot forc back.",0,train
1012,need stay alert let headline-grab viru distract us. one believ focu fight covid-19 constitut “cart blanche” breach intern law militari adventure.,0,train
1013,"however, also rare posit sign come region usual lack good news. austria much welcom announc normalis relat israel emir bahrain. hope relat flourish serv exampl countries.",0,train
1014,"austria join unit nation 65 year ago, novemb 1956, first speech deliv behalf country, foreign minist leopold figl said:",0,train
1015,"“today world look commun nations, hope",0,train
1016,placed. justifi confid peopl earth assur,0,train
1017,"preserv peac order, bread work?”",0,test
1018,"order justifi confid place us, enough meet year lament crisi multilateralism. enough pay lip-servic intern cooper need implement rules.",0,train
1019,"let’ honest: viru struck, even ardent multilateralist focus keep public safe, close borders, hoard mask equipment. even toughest my-stat first unilateralist look intern cooper secur medic suppli assist overcom social econom crisis.",0,train
1020,"so, don’t use pandem game-chang simpli away unnecessari disput multilateralist unilateralists? let’ chang game, set match!",0,test
1021,"test ground new approach could cooper covid-19 prevent effect treatment. newli develop vaccin must global public good, access reason price!",0,train
1023,encourag initi like access covid-19 tool acceler covid-19 vaccin global access facility. greatli valu indispens role world health organisation.,0,train
1024,"pandem expos vulner societi fragil humankind. know next global disast lurk around corner, wait hit us. climat change, nuclear disast cyber crime.",0,train
1025,success failur take decis unit nation take place vacuum. reach deep societi everyday live citizens. global crisi brought home us one clear lesson: succeed fail together.,0,train
1026,"we, “peopl unit nations” need — need strong function multilater system. today next 75 year come.",0,train
1027,"thank attention!mr. president,",0,train
1028,"congratul presid 75th session gener assembly, mr. volkan bozkir, election. delight elect repres brotherli turkey distinguish post. sure azerbaijan spare effort extend support respons honor endeavor.",0,train
1030,"almost 20 per cent territori azerbaijan remain occup armenia almost 30 years. armenia use militari forc azerbaijan, brutal violat un charter occupi nagorno-karabakh seven region azerbaijan. one million azerbaijani becam refuge intern displac persons.",0,train
1032,"armenia commit khojali genocid 1992 kill 613 peac resid khojaly, among 106 women 63 children. ten countri recogn khojali genocide.",0,train
1033,"four un secur council resolut demand immediate, complete, uncondit withdraw armenian arm forc azerbaijan’ occupi territories.",0,train
1034,"case, un secur council resolut implement within days. however, armenia continu ignor un secur council’ resolut almost 30 years. intern sanction must impos armenia aggressor state.",0,train
1035,"blatant violat intern law norms, armenia implement polici illeg settlement occupi territories. intern community, includ azerbaijan concentr elimin consequ beirut explosion, armenia misus situat settl lebanes peopl armenian origin occupi territori azerbaijan.",0,train
1036,"illeg settlement gross violat intern law, includ geneva convent 1949. war crime. illeg settlement occupi territori azerbaijan cannot legal effect.",0,train
1038,armenia illeg exploit natur resourc use water reserv creat artifici environment crisi occupi territories. armenia extract gold preciou metal miner occupi land azerbaijan export intern markets. scheme illeg busi activ money laundering.,0,test
1040,armenia deliber target civilian popul perpetr provoc along line contact armenia-azerbaijan border.,0,train
1042,arm forc azerbaijan took counter-measur liber part occupi territories.,0,train
1045,"purpos provoc armenia creat new sourc tension region, set asid issu armenia’ occup azerbaijan’ territories, involv third parti conflict, damag azerbaijan’ strateg infrastructur projects. also attempt distract people’ attent grow socioeconom problem armenia.",0,train
1046,"however, azerbaijan retali resolutely, armenia fail achiev objectives. armenia face anoth militari defeat. armenia appeal odkb  collect secur treati organ  militari assistance, thu admit defeat.",0,train
1047,"recently, armenian sabotag group attempt penetr line contact. head group detain azerbaijani militari servicemen 23 august year. confess group plan commit terror act azerbaijani militari servicemen civilians.",0,train
1048,"armenian govern turn azerbaijan’ propos exchang captiv base principl “all all”. azerbaijani civilian dilgam asgarov shahbaz guliyev, visit grave parent occupi territories, taken hostag tortured. remain captiv six years.",0,train
1049,"so-cal “elections” march occupi territori azerbaijan yet anoth provocation. so-cal “elections”, like previou ones, strongli condemn reject intern community, includ osc minsk group co-chairs, non-align movement, organ islam cooperation, european union, european parliament others.",0,test
1050,"illeg presenc arm forc armenia occupi land azerbaijan remain major threat region peac security. armenia tri derail peac process mediat osc minsk group co-chairs. aim pursu armenia maintain current status-quo occup annex occupi territories. contrari construct engag azerbaijan, prime minist armenia deliber undermin format substanc negoti process. statement “karabakh armenia” serious damag negoti process. unaccept groundless socal seven condit azerbaijan reject us. put forward one condit achiev peace. arm forc armenia must withdraw occupi territori azerbaijan. entir world recogn nagorno-karabakh integr part azerbaijan.",0,train
1051,"armenian prime minist announc establish civilian militia consist ten thousand civilian forc undertak militari action azerbaijan. minist defens armenia call “new war new territories”. armenia threaten azerbaijan strike major cities, critic civilian infrastructur mingachevir water reservoir sangach terminal, one world’ biggest oil-ga termin situat near baku provid energi secur ten countries.",0,train
1052,armenia recruit use mercenari terrorist differ countri azerbaijan. armenia state sponsor terrorism. armenia commit 30 terror act azerbaijan. credibl inform presenc armenian ala terror organ occupi territories.,0,train
1053,"armenian terrorist kill 24 turkish diplomats. varuzhan karapetian, member asala terror organ commit terror act kill mani peopl differ nationalities, airport orli pari later extradit armenia pardon presid armenia. terrorist treat hero armenia.",0,train
1054,"recently, armenia adopt aggress offens militari doctrin nation secur strategy. nation secur strategi contain racist, chauvinist “azerbaijanophobic” ideas.",0,train
1055,"glorif nazism state polici armenia. nazi gener garegin nzhdeh turn “nation hero”. second world war, detain sentenc 25 year prison die there. almost 6 meter high monument built memori nzhdeh center capit armenia. member number armenian terror organ like asala glorifi country.",0,train
1056,"hostile, azerbaijanohob statement provoc armenian leadership demonstr armenia prepar new aggress azerbaijan. call un intern commun urg armenia refrain anoth militari aggression.",0,train
1057,military-polit leadership armenia bear respons instig provoc escal tensions.,0,train
1058,"regretfully, osc minsk group co-chair’ activ yet deliv results. negoti must conduct sake negotiations, must target-ori meaningful.",0,train
1059,"presid osc minsk group co-chair countri — france, russia, unit state — statement stress status-quo unacceptable. welcom statements, statement enough. need actions.",0,test
1060,involv negoti process almost 30 year clear demonstr commit peace. 11 member minsk group activ involv process.,0,train
1061,"accord un secur council resolut 853  1993 , updat timet withdraw arm forc armenia occupi territori azerbaijan must prepared. appropri un institut must contribut implement un secur council resolut return azerbaijani intern displac person nativ lands. un secur council resolut timespecific. resolut valid implemented. misinterpret un secur council resolut unacceptable.",0,train
1062,armenia-azerbaijan conflict must resolv basi territori integr azerbaijan. azerbaijan’ territori integr never never subject negotiations. sovereignti territori integr azerbaijan must complet restored. nagorno-karabakh ancient histor azerbaijani lands. karabakh azerbaijan.,0,train
1063,"serious concern increas case arm suppli armenia, especi right militari provoc armenia tovuz district azerbaijan. activ militari clash state border stop 16 july. next day start 17 juli september, wit deliveri one thousand ton militari equip armenia militari cargo planes. take account armenia one poorest countri world afford pay weapon billion us dollars, assum get weapon free charge.",0,train
1064,"suppli weapon aggressor countri perpetr ethnic cleans significantli undermin peac negoti encourag occupi state instig new militari provocations. context, urg countri refrain suppli arm armenia.",0,train
1066,"human right massiv violat armenia. judg pressur blackmailed, journalists, opposit activist polit oppon jail despot regime. fact, dictatorship establish armenia.",0,train
1067,crimin case open two former presid country. member parliament despit immun detained.,0,train
1069,polit relat countri reach point crisis. countri rule warlord 20 years. incumb polit leadership continu practic previou regimes. prospect develop armenia unless consequ militari aggress azerbaijan eliminated.,0,train
1071,"despit enorm difficulti caus armenian occupation, azerbaijan manag build stable, modern, democrat multicultur country. develop democraci human right protect among top prioriti government. fundament freedom fulli provided, includ freedom expression, media freedom, freedom assembly, religi freedoms, well develop civil society. launch broad polit dialogu initi sever month ago. major polit parti support initiative. polit dialogu success start would help strengthen polit system serv caus sustain develop azerbaijan.",0,train
1072,"azerbaijan’ economi develop rapidly, gdp tripl last 17 years. poverti azerbaijan went 49 per cent 5 per cent within 17 years. 3700 school built complet renov azerbaijan last 17 years. literaci rate close 100 per cent country. countri signific progress implement sustain develop goals, azerbaijan one state submit voluntarili nation review un twice. azerbaijan rank 54th among 166 countri sustain develop goal index, accord “sustain develop report 2020”.",0,train
1073,"azerbaijan particip activ region connect projects, east-west, north-south, north-west transport corridors, becom one eurasia’ primari reliabl transport logist hubs. also commiss baku-tbilisi-kar railroad baku intern trade seaport potenti handl capac 25 million tons. accord davo econom forum’ global competit report 2019, among 141 countries, azerbaijan rank 11th “effici railroad services”, 12th “effici air transport services”, 25th “effici seaport services” 27th “qualiti road infrastructure”.",0,train
1074,azerbaijan member intern space club. today 3 satellit — 2 telecommun one earth observ satellite. 80 per cent popul use internet.,0,test
1076,"multicultur way life peopl azerbaijan. present world exampl toler coexistence. “baku process” launch azerbaijan 2008 strengthen dialogu cooper muslim world europe, support unit nations. un gener assembly’ resolut recogn world forum intercultur dialogu held azerbaijan everi two year “key global platform promot intercultur dialogue”.",0,test
1077,"7th global forum un allianc civil held azerbaijan 2016. furthermore, azerbaijan host first ever european game 4th islam solidar game 2015 2017 respectively. sport event great contribut promot multicultur well.",0,train
1078,"pope franci paid visit azerbaijan 2016. february, visit vatican meet pope francis. meeting, pope franci refer azerbaijan “true exampl tolerance”.",0,train
1079,"azerbaijan attach great signific restor religi monuments, mosques, churches, synagogues. implement joint project restor religi histor monument differ countries.",0,train
1084,world health organ name azerbaijan exampl fight pandemic.,0,train
1085,made voluntari contribut world health organ amount $10 million 2 equal tranches. second tranch alloc non-align movement’ member states. azerbaijan provid humanitarian financi assist 30 countri respect coronavirus.,0,train
1086,unanim decis 120 countri non-align movement azerbaijan elect chair body. octob 2019 azerbaijan assum chairmanship non-align movement 18th summit head state govern held baku. statement summit stress azerbaijan utmost advoc interest non-align movement’ countries. azerbaijan defend justic norm intern law.,0,train
1087,"non-align movement’ extraordinari summit respons coronaviru via videoconference, held initi may 2020. summit, suggest hold special session un gener assembl respons coronaviru level head state government. initi support 130 un member states.",0,test
1088,think special session serv framework address pandemic’ impact sphere contribut effort elimin consequences.,0,train
1089,"intern peac secur problems, pandemic’ impact countri world call solidar countries. want put forward sever propos end:",0,train
1090,"reform within intern organ particularli time essenti post-pandem period. regard, particular attent paid increas un’ role prestig global level abil undertak adequ respons measur concern challeng modern times.",0,train
1091,non-fulfil secur council resolut undermin prestig unit nations. implement mechan must creat un secur council resolutions.,0,train
1092,refuge idp becom vulner group pandem period. return vulner group nativ land safeti digniti gain great urgency.,0,train
1093,"ensur afford fair distribut vaccin necessary, least develop countri get free charge. regard, addit oversight mechan developed.",0,train
1094,"scope pandemic’ neg impact implement sustain develop goal countri must care analyzed, solut must formulated.",0,test
1095,"thank attention.your excel mr. volkan bozkir, presid unit nation gener assembl seventy-fifth session,",0,train
1096,"excellencies, head state government,",0,train
1097,"majesties,",0,train
1098,"mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations,",0,train
1099,"dear colleagues, distinguish delegates, ladi gentlemen, protocol observed,",0,train
1101,"course, would like debate, coincid seventy-fifth anniversari creation organization, take place gener assembl hall customary, ala — covid-19 pandemic, hit nation world head-on, requir us meet virtually.",0,train
1102,"express hope next session held better circumstances, overcom health crisi spare one.",0,train
1103,"allow me, then, express warm congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir republ turkey brilliant elect presid unit nation gener assembl seventy-fifth session.",0,train
1104,"great qualiti talent certainli guarante success work session. indeed, central theme year’ gener assembl well thought-out, name “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0,train
1105,"naturally, count burundi’ full cooper accomplish nobl exhilar mission.",0,train
1106,"time, would like pay well-deserv tribut predecessor, mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, admir profession person qualities, also except profession manner presid seventy-fourth session, success conclud particularli difficult context mark covid-19 crisis.",0,test
1107,"take opportun present, behalf burundian people, deepest condol solidar nation lost citizen result covid-19 pandemic. indiscrimin pandem highlight import multilateralism, intern solidar cooper manag global crise paradoxes.",0,train
1108,"furthermore, allow commend remark work secretary- general, mr. antonio guterres, ongo courag action reform common organ order increas effici credibl bring closer citizen world, without discrimination. burundi reiter full support cooper regard.",0,test
1109,"mr. president, term domest policy, burundi well advanc process consolid peac democracy, despit challeng face country.",0,train
1110,"indeed, burundi held gener elect may august. elect fair, free, democratic, transparent, peac financ entir burundian taxpayers’ resources.",0,train
1111,"full financ elector process nation resourc testimoni burundian peopl definit take ownership political, administr econom govern system countri without extern interference.",0,train
1112,"foundat strengthen democraci place, remain get work develop — linchpin fight poverty.",0,train
1113,"awar struggl requir wisdom, bravery, courage, persever high sens patriot love work. together, unity, succeed.",0,train
1114,"regard secur situation, pleas inform situat burundi stable, calm fulli control throughout country.",0,test
1115,"regard humanitarian situation, welcom massiv voluntari return burundian refuge fled countri follow event plung burundi deep mourning.",0,test
1116,"addit sever thousand burundian return without unhcr assistance, 1 august 2017 31 august 2020, 92,285 refuge voluntarili repatri burundi tanzania, also kenya, rwanda, democrat republ congo uganda.",0,train
1117,"massiv voluntari return movement clear manifest return peace, tranquillity, confid stabil country.",0,train
1118,"diplomat level, ambit build friendli relat strengthen cooper base principl mutual respect sovereign equal states. tendenc state use subtl illeg mean manipul geopolit countri south power supplant intern commun oppress countri impos unilater coerciv measur violat principl charter unit nation must stop. burundi advoc multilater wherebi everi country, regardless size level development, role play address humankind’ mani share challenges.",0,train
1119,"regard, burundi remain open cooper countri intern organ seek develop mutual benefici respect cooper relations.",0,train
1123,act destabil factor countri instead promot peac tranquillity.,0,train
1124,therefor reiter legitim call immedi remov burundi secur council’ agenda use preciou time address socioeconom develop support nation effort implement nation develop plan period 2018 2027 sustain develop goal  sdg  2030 agenda sustain development.,0,train
1125,"concern implement 2030 agenda, addit integr align sdg 2018-2027 nation develop plan, govern republ burundi highlight sever prioriti requir immedi special attention. fight poverty, promot good governance, public health, agricultur anim husbandry, environment protection, human capit development, counter youth unemploy free health care retirees. area good governance, govern implement zero-toler polici corruption, social injustic misappropri wast use state assets, polici best practic manag state employees.",0,train
1126,"like countri commit sustain development, burundi taken everi measur need produc regular follow-up report implement sdg nation develop plan.",0,train
1128,"mr. president, regard global challenges, session excel opportun member state reflect organ must face new emerg challenges. ever, world live today requir consensu approach address major challenges, climat change, terrorism, peac settlement conflicts, reform security-council, migrat manag health crises.",0,train
1131,"concern fight terrorism, strongli condemn terror forms, country, burundi, believ terror cannot associ religion, nationality, civil ethnicity. borderless threat requir global solut uncondit tackl root caus evil time.",0,train
1132,"awar magnitud terror today, country, burundi, continu make substanti contribut combat terror somalia, countri deploy 5,000 troop unit nation peacekeep operations, well central african republic, burundi militari battalion, excel work.",0,train
1133,"regard process region integration, welcom commend initi establish african continent free trade area  afcfta , allow free movement good peopl continent. doubt african continent free trade area repres genuin opportun stimul growth, reduc poverti broaden econom inclus africa.",0,train
1134,"concern subject reform secur council, negoti quarter century, country, burundi, remain firmli commit common african position, contain ezulwini consensu sirt declaration. common african posit aim correct flagrant injustic commit africa, contin repres secur council categori perman membership, also underrepres non-perman category.",0,test
1137,"challeng met intern solidarity, cooper promot multilateralism, base rule intern law.",0,train
1138,"mr. president, conclusion, country, burundi, never stop believ intern solidarity, multilater reject power diplomacy. bless belief, countri burundi reaffirm commit fulli particip build world order base rule law, peaceful, equitable, prosper respect principl charter unit nations.",0,train
1139,"thank everyon kind attention. may god bless everyone!presid gener assembl secretary-general,",0,train
1140,"head deleg ladi gentlemen,",0,train
1141,trust - respons - commit,0,train
1142,three pillar influenc mutual aid cooper among variou countries: effect multilateralism.,0,train
1143,three valu need safeguard multilater would like speak today.,0,train
1144,pandem must serv eye open,0,train
1145,"indeed, 2020 recal pain year. covid-19 pandem took us surprise. state face unpreced crisis.",0,train
1146,viru claim live hundr thousand people. shatter mani famili around world. econom impact also considerable.,0,test
1148,"yet, blind covid-19. contrary, open eye shortcom expos model society, example.",0,train
1149,"must acknowledg neg disproportion effect pandem suffer disproportion inequalities: women girls, children, older person peopl disabilities. one left wayside.",0,train
1150,mention challeng,0,train
1151,"continu combat pandem consequ vigour determination, cannot turn back major challeng twenty-first century.",0,train
1153,threaten fragil balanc world.,0,train
1154,conflict never inevitable.,0,test
1155,"furthermore, alway devast impact populations...",0,test
1156,"situat gulf, example, remain sourc seriou concern call utmost prudence.",0,train
1157,jcpoa  joint comprehens plan action  remain crucial ensur iran’ nuclear programm use exclus peac purposes. must activ preserv agreement non-prolifer regime.,0,train
1158,"issu upcom lift convent weapon embargo must jeopard nuclear agreement achievements. top prioriti region stability, intern secur global non-prolifer architecture.",0,train
1159,"middl east, prospect last peac remain goal. peac middl east without perman solut palestinian question.",0,train
1160,peac middl east without israel’ legitim right live peac secur within intern recogn borders.,0,test
1161,peac middl east without erad terrorism.,0,train
1162,"yes, suspens plan formal annex part occupi palestinian territori step right direction.",0,train
1164,welcom recent announc normal israel’ relat unit arab emir bahrain. must view sign hope cornerston peac stabil entir region.,0,train
1165,"said, intern multilater effort aim meaning resumpt talk must activ support enabl negoti viabl two-stat solut base intern law unit nation resolutions.",0,train
1166,"secur situat much sahel remain matter seriou concern, despit numer effort increas intern mobilization.",0,train
1167,"follow coup de forc led mutin member malian arm forces, mali’ legal constitut order challenged.",0,train
1168,"legitim demands, aspir frustrat malian citizens, await solut mani challeng face country, met way. support region inter-malian effort establish soon possibl civil transit process bamako allow return constitut order.",0,train
1169,mani mali’ challeng common entir region.,0,train
1170,"terrorism, conflict pastoralist farmer inter-commun tension pose sever secur threats.",0,train
1171,"holist approach need combat violent extremism, underscor good governance, fight impunity, strengthen democrat institutions, respons grievanc margin group sustain inclus development.",0,test
1172,"time, ever-increas number region world experi health, secur humanitarian implic climat chang degrad biodiversity.",0,train
1173,"drought errat weather condit drive peopl homes, whether somalia, yemen afghanistan. melt polar ice lead militar arctic.",0,train
1174,"impact climat chang underscor social, political, econom environment caus conflict.",0,test
1175,climat emerg challeng peace. time waste.,0,train
1176,caus must concern us all.,0,train
1177,"sustain develop goal and, generally, 2030 agenda essenti tool respond global challeng face — poverty, inequ climat environment degradation.",0,train
1178,effect multilater respons,0,train
1179,"light global challenges, must act.",0,train
1180,admit cannot alone.,0,train
1181,none common challeng mention address isolation. none complex problem simpl solutions.,0,train
1182,"choic join forces, even mean reimagin obviou even chang paradigms. alway accord principl charter.",0,train
1183,multilater work basi essenc  work common make work.,0,train
1184,"make task take action difficult task reflect easier, it. let us engag wrong fight.",0,train
1185,relev question multilater reveal indispens nature.,0,train
1186,"today, ever, need effect multilateralism.",0,train
1187,never object itself.,0,train
1188,"alway mean address problem part, one way another.",0,train
1189,mean prevent crise head-on.,0,test
1190,"trust, respons commitment.",0,train
1191,trust,0,train
1192,"say trust, mean trust — trust individu collect capacities, demonstr health-car services, fight pandemic.",0,test
1193,"trust courage, resilience, knowledg respons behaviour, combin scientif progress, mitig climat change.",0,train
1194,trust commit achiev sustain develop all.,0,train
1195,intern commun alreadi overcom major challeng again. resign option.,0,train
1196,"speak trust, also mean mutual trust. trust forc us keep word. make us maintain constant dialogu put other’ shoes.",0,train
1197,"not, longer so, mistrust set and, sooner later, make necessari cooper difficult even impossible.",0,train
1198,"say trust, mean good govern national, region intern level order gain trust citizens.",0,train
1199,"good govern built foundat rule law, democracy, account full respect human rights.",0,train
1200,"say trust, mean trust justic — justic must built unshak convict individu equal form discrimin alter fact.",0,train
1201,respons,0,train
1202,"trust, responsibility, commitment.",0,train
1203,"unit nations, respons make global govern work. contribut variou way variou levels, everi member benefit. unit nations.",0,train
1204,"such, share respons make multilater work show ad value.",0,train
1205,fulli support secretary-gener antonio guterres’ continu effort reform un.,0,train
1206,"reform greater efficiency, greater transpar greater respons adaptability.",0,test
1207,"also reaffirm full support peacekeep action. recognit need safeguard one import instrument intern commun support polit processes, protect hundr thousand civilian help enforc ceasefires.",0,train
1208,make global govern multilater work also mean hinder function exist bodies.,0,train
1209,"therefore, belgium reaffirm firm support icc, essenti bodi fight impun seriou crime affect entir intern community. independ imparti institution, court play indispens role area. account also mean take ownership challeng move identifi take action address them. respons contemporaries, also, all, children next generations. bring next point — commitment.",0,train
1210,commit   belgium,0,train
1211,commit multilater part country’ dna.,0,train
1212,perhap foreign histori  tradit compromise.,0,train
1213,intern rule protect us.,0,train
1214,cooper close relat strengthen us.,0,train
1215,"effect multilater allow us punch weight. process, we, larg small, voic ad valu around table.",0,train
1216,commit help belgium obtain sixth mandat un secur council.,0,train
1217,"elect council member 2019 2020, continu discharg duti advanc peac secur daily.",0,train
1218,"so, recogn secur council immun geopolit tensions. see imperfect body. see 15 state alway abl resolv conflicts.",0,train
1219,"however, also see major decis unanimous.",0,train
1220,increas cooper among elect member inspiring.,0,train
1221,"step taken discuss new secur threats, climat change, encouraging.",0,train
1222,"transit justic anoth area unit nation demonstr ambit — comprehens human rights-bas approach, central justic accountability.",0,train
1223,"aspirations, requir coordin among variou nation intern actors. belgium contribut achiev continu engage.",0,train
1224,commit also drive forc behind country’ contribut develop cooper humanitarian aid.,0,train
1225,prompt belgium provid multi-year support unrwa — make countri one largest donor — improv live palestinian refugees.,0,train
1226,belgium’ commit also reflect posit one main european donor yemen.,0,train
1227,also support unicef’ effort enabl monitor children’ right conflicts.,0,train
1228,belgium’ commit reflect predict direct multi-year fund unit nation organ activ area development. allow long-term action adequ respons mani crises.,0,test
1229,"constant commit work strateg object un- women, whose tenth anniversari mark year, countri work toward systemat integr gender dimens efforts. cardin principl foreign policy. believ endors work dr. deni mukweg support women victim sexual violenc eastern congo.",0,train
1230,"furthermore, arm forc also committed. commit fight threat terror global coalit da’esh.",0,train
1231,"commit particip multilater peac mission mali afghanistan, auspic un, european union nato.",0,test
1232,"lastly, strong solid organ must abl reli resourc sovereign member state decid alloc it.",0,train
1233,belgium commit continu effort ensur un necessari resourc conduct work time — indispens compon effect multilateralism.,0,train
1234,conclus,0,train
1235,"celebr seventy-fifth anniversari un, special circumstances, must allow pessimistic.",0,train
1236,let us stand up. let us face challeng ahead build past achievements.,0,train
1237,"come weeks, celebr 20 year progress women peac secur agenda twenty-fifth anniversari beij platform.",0,train
1238,multilater achiev global polici framework women’ rights. two concret exampl togeth improv live half world’ population. matters. project still much progress made.,0,train
1239,"examples, matter.",0,train
1240,remind us multilater work. remind us mani benefit effect multilateralism.,0,train
1241,let us therefor support it.,0,train
1242,without hesitation.,0,train
1243,"trust, respons commitment.",0,test
1244,"thank you.presid gener assembly,",0,train
1245,"head state govern head delegation,",0,train
1246,"excel mr. patric talon, presid republ benin, head state head government, could today, instruct deliv follow address behalf.",0,train
1247,"“first all, would like reiter you, mr. volkan bozkir, warm sincer congratul elect presid august assembl assur benin’ full support cooper conduct duties.",0,test
1248,"take opportun express benin’ gratitud mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, reiter support government.",0,train
1249,"time entir world face covid-19 pandemic, take opportun offer sincer condol nation record death express solidar republ benin affect scourge.",0,train
1250,"state mobil deal effect health crisis, countri welcom fact unit nation special agencies, particular world health organization, consid priority.",0,test
1251,"benin welcom theme year’ session, entitled, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0,train
1252,"theme forc us shoulder respons reiter faith commit multilater ideal charter unit nations. remind us urgenc collect action find appropri last solut challeng time, press is, know, erad covid-19.",0,train
1253,"support peopl intern community, benin continu effort grappl pandem consequ and, particular, revit economi which, like economi major countries, deepli affect scourge.",0,train
1254,"end, among things, govern roll vast programm amount nearli 200 billion cfa franc support formal inform busi alike, well artisan vulner people.",0,test
1256,covid-19 pandem one seriou public health crise modern history. threat lead us ignor fight hiv aid diseas pose threat communities.,0,test
1257,"effect combat scourg requires, manag today’ global challenges, coordin intern respons enhanc cooper global scale.",0,train
1258,"benin, voice, reiter commit promot strengthen multilateralism, framework cooper among state seek resolv contemporari issu kinds, includ fight extrem poverty, priority.",0,train
1259,"let remind septemb 2016, gener debat seventy-first session unit nation gener assembly, stress mass poverti major threat humankind must take proactiv collect action erad it. four year later, call remain relevant.",0,test
1260,"reiter need urgent implement global programm overcom form poverti collect voluntari action. multilateralism, enabl unit nation provid world pari climat agreement, right tool achiev objective.",0,train
1261,"regard, welcom courag reform undertaken unit nation secretary-gener reposit unitedn develop system. benin support resolut 72 279, aim strengthen institut architectur unit nation develop system ensur greater effectiveness.",0,train
1262,"benin also firmli support intergovernment negoti reform unit nation secur council. believ reform make possibl redress histor injustic done africa — contin repres council perman member. benin also reaffirms, voice, urgenc alloc two perman member seat africa, accord ezulwini consensus.",0,train
1263,"head govern head delegations,",0,test
1264,peac harmoni among state key compon benin’ foreign policy.,0,train
1265,"countri therefor reaffirm support diplomat initi aim creat viabl fulli sovereign palestinian state, live side side peac state israel.",0,train
1266,"benin believ current context covid-19 justifi concret step total definit lift embargo cuba. however, spite pandemic, regrettably, see embargo tightened.",0,train
1267,"countri make urgent appeal normal relat cuba unit state america, interest peopl countri entir world.",0,test
1268,"sinc april 2016, benin engag far-reach polit econom reform design clean economy, creat favour environ invest combat corrupt prevarication.",0,train
1269,"benin therefor decid break mistak past seek engag rigor resolut govern sectors. govern systemat implement major reform action programme, whose goal line sdgs.",0,train
1270,"result achieved, laud nation internationally, convinc peopl benin that, determin resolve, possibl countri get rut return path develop prosperity.",0,test
1271,"“mi govern relentlessli pursu path toward radic transform live condit benin’ citi rural areas, includ univers access drink water electr power, which, recent 2016, consid privileg luxuri benin.",0,test
1272,“mi government’ programm action also attach prime import preserv environ energi transition. measur plan within framework complementari object prioriti contain pari agreement climat change.,0,train
1273,"“the appeal launch 15 novemb 2016 marrakech confer state parti unit nation framework convent climat change, aim creat intern research centr address effect climat chang agriculture, receiv favour respons states.",0,train
1274,"“i take opportun commend state region groups, along unit nation framework convent climat chang secretariat, spare effort reach consensu necessari effect establish centre.",0,train
1275,"“mr. president,",0,train
1276,"“ladi gentlemen head govern head delegations,",0,train
1277,"“ladi gentlemen,",0,train
1278,"“benin belong subregion increasingli affect deterior secur situation. unfortunately, number victim terrorist violenc continu grow, particularli sahel. situat requir joint effort collect action address it.",0,train
1279,"“in connection, welcom action plan 2020-2024 adopt decemb 2019 ecowa view effect comprehens combat scourg west african subregion.",0,test
1280,"“furthermore, would like express benin’ solidar g-5 sahel member countri call intern commun bolster region effort provid strengthen support fight terror africa.",0,train
1281,"“there doubt that, together, succeed stabil region africa view creat condit conduc develop fulfil aspir respect populations.",0,train
1282,"“thank kind attention.”mr. president,",0,train
1283,"head delegation,",0,train
1284,brilliant elect presid 75th session gener assembl give pleasant opportun extend sincer congratul delegation.,0,train
1285,"mr. outgo president, dear professor tijjani muhammad band",0,test
1286,"assum presid 74th session unit nation gener assembl behalf africa, idea organization, beyond that, entir world, would experi health crisi profound covid-19.",0,train
1287,"face unforese situation, team manag adapt new requir meet challeng order ensur continu activ function gener assembly.",0,train
1288,"secretary-general,",0,train
1289,"januari 22, present 2020 prioriti gener assembly, identifi call four “horsemen apocalypse” global geostrateg tensions, “existential” climat crisis, grow mistrust among peopl everywher “dark side” digit world.",0,train
1290,"unfortunately, less two month later, fifth highli destruct horseman apocalypse, coronaviru disease, appear ad four alreadi identified. sinc then, fulli invest ensur unit nation mobil confront pandem multifacet consequences.",0,test
1291,"14 june 2019, unit nation gener assembl decided, resolut 73 299, celebr 75th anniversari common organ theme “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism”. given global crisi trigger covid-19 pandemic, presid gener assembl supplement celebration’ gener theme word “to confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0,train
1292,"theme, underpin activities, meet confer organ un 2020, remind us fundament reason behind organization’ creation.",0,train
1293,"commemor anniversary, us would like physic present headquart new york, come togeth celebr valu promot defend unit nation sinc creation 1945.",0,train
1294,"unfortunately, pandem dictat otherwise, remind us world’ fragil interdependence.",0,train
1295,"9 march 2020, burkina faso record first case covid-19. govern adapt action realiti time, implement quarantin lockdown measur cities, well variou restrictions.",0,test
1296,"mr. president, distinguish delegates,",0,train
1297,"covid-19 pandem multidimension crisi risk destroy develop effort number countries, especi affect conflict.",0,train
1299,"take opportun welcom debt relief measur favour develop countries, call debt cancel outright.",0,test
1300,ladi gentlemen head deleg,0,train
1301,"month ago, issu organ crime essenti view prism fight terrorism. today, emerg coronaviru diseas pandemic, must take account triptych organ crime, terror covid-19.",0,test
1302,"war terror sahel region, would like commend intern community’ support backing, proof anyon still need fight terror matter intern security.",0,train
1303,"militari aspect alone, point notabl progress activ g5 sahel joint forc friendli troops. also cannot ignor highli signific involv secretary-general, secur council european union reviewing, februari 2020, technic agreement european union, unit nation g5 sahel, allow minusma support g5 sahel joint forc extend beyond mali’ borders.",0,train
1304,"however, regrett said forc still yet reach desir oper level. would therefor like reiter call secur council forc place chapter vii unit nation charter benefit sustain funding.",0,train
1305,"also call partner activ support intern coalit sahel creat pau, france, januari 2020.",0,train
1306,distinguish deleg,0,train
1307,"fight terrorism, organ accus defenc secur forc atroc human right violations. would like reaffirm defenc secur forc carri mission respect human rights, particular right life right physic integrity, guarante legal instrument burkina faso party.",0,train
1308,"whenev member defenc secur forc implic allegations, investig duli open order identifi account punish perpetrators.",0,train
1309,"would like reassur burkina faso’ partner intern commun that, despit modest resources, defenc secur forc combat terror professionalism, strict complianc rule engag govern actions.",0,test
1310,"case, burkina faso spare effort meet challeng fight terrorism, guarante protect popul refugees, continu work restor peac secur across entir nation territory, accord rule intern law.",0,train
1311,"regard, 1 july, govern agre open offic unit nation high commission human right burkina faso.",0,train
1312,"voter go poll burkina faso 22 novemb 2020 joint presidenti legisl elections. entir polit class, major opposit alike, consensu agre proceed elections, despit prevail insecur certain region country.",0,train
1313,"reaffirm government’ commit organ transparent, inclus peac elections. end, juli 2019, institut perman polit dialogu framework compon burkinab polit class, order remov obstacl aris throughout process.",0,train
1314,"burkina faso, earli take stock need preserv environment. policies, measur undertaken revers trend environment degrad ensur sustain manag natur resources.",0,train
1315,"tragic flood countri sever countri contin recent week remind us need stronger commit multilater approach, embodi unit nation framework convent climat change.",0,train
1316,"troop-contribut countri support unit nation search peace, burkina faso has, despit intern situation, deploy 1,130 troops, includ one battalion two form polic unit 60 individu posts.",0,train
1317,wish take opportun reaffirm burkina faso’ constant readi engag alongsid unit nation seek achiev peac throughout world deploy uniform personnel legal experts.,0,train
1319,"even today, african issu abund secur council’ agenda.",0,train
1320,"ongo secur crisi sahel lake chad basin genuin concern answer must found, knowledg situat libya one causes.",0,train
1321,mean resolv polit crisi libya one guarante need peac return regions. therefor ask secur council appoint new joint un african union special envoy lead negotiations.,0,train
1322,"mali, call settlement polit crisi rapid return constitut order, support decis ecowa smooth transition.",0,train
1323,"western sahara issue, notabl progress made follow conven two round tabl geneva algeria, morocco, mauritania polisario front deserv consolidated. achiev this, burkina faso wish see appoint new special envoy order pursu work predecessor.",0,train
1324,"situat middl east, particularli israeli-palestinian conflict, real need relaunch diplomat effort aim put end conflict.",0,train
1325,"regard economic, trade financi blockad impos cuba sinc 1962, burkina faso reiter call lifted.",0,train
1326,"burkina faso congratul cuba abl contain pandem and, show intern solidarity, sent hundr doctor health-car worker 35 countri around world respons request urgent help.",0,train
1327,"seventy-f year creation, 20 year intergovernment negotiations, reform unit nation still pending. however, everyon agreement acknowledg organ must make possibl redress injustic done africa, african claim legitim aspiration.",0,train
1328,"therefor reiter country’ support african common position, reflect ezulwini consensu sirt declaration, accord africa must fulli repres decision-mak bodi unit nations, especi secur council.",0,train
1329,ladi gentlemen,0,train
1330,"adopt 21 septemb final declar commemor seventy-fifth anniversari organization, acknowledg organ yet achiev level found father wish for, poverty, hunger, terrorism, extrem even insecurity, inter alia, remain pertin issu day.",0,train
1331,"consequently, commit histori leav one behind, promot peac digit cooperation, take young people, women girl account develop policies.",0,test
1332,"recogn interdepend variou challeng face unit nations, resolv strengthen multilateralism. hope secretary-general’ report, submit us culmin 75th session, allow us look futur greater optimism.",0,train
1333,"again, reaffirm collect commit multilateralism. unit nation must remain common compass.",0,train
1334,long live unit nation,0,train
1335,long live intern cooper,0,train
1336,thank you.hon’bl prime minist,0,train
1337,govern people’ republ bangladesh,0,train
1338,"name allah, gracious, merci",0,test
1339,assamu alaikum.,0,train
1340,congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly.,0,train
1341,pass unpreced crisi histori humankind due covid-19 pandemic. also first time un’ histori gener assembl take place digit platform without presenc person head state head govern un headquart new york.,0,train
1342,"gener assembl hall evok deep emot me. hall 1974, father bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman deliv speech first time bangla head govern newli independ country. also privileg attend gener assembl session in-person 16 times. emphas world peac solidar speeches. head government, year deliv 17th speech assembly.",0,train
1343,"take opportun pay tribut frontlin fighter includ health worker public servant work tirelessli ensur safeti affect countri population. also commend unit nation secretary- gener bold leadership multilater effort crisis. bangladesh among first rank countri endors secretary-general’ variou initiatives, includ global ceasefir appeal.",0,train
1344,"second world war creat opportun countri come togeth effort cooperate, establish unit nations, similarli pandem emphas need collect action guidanc right leadership.",0,train
1345,"profound gratitude, rememb undisput leader bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman, greatest bangale time. taught bangale nation stand firm world end exploitation, deprivation, oppression. follow footsteps, abl secur respect posit bangladesh comiti nation. august assembl declared, “the nobl ideal enshrin charter unit nation ideal million peopl made suprem sacrifice”.",0,test
1346,"bangale nation fulli commit build world order, aspir men peac justic realized.” statement inde bold express multilateralism. reflect bangabandhu made 1974 continu remain equal relev even today, grappl current crisis.",0,train
1347,"year particularli signific bangale nation, celebr birth centenari father nation. reflect life, struggle, sacrific celebr achievements, sourc encourag brighter futur give us hope cope challeng covid-19. birth centenary, we, behalf depriv peopl nation pay rich tribut bangabandhu.",0,train
1348,"remember, deep pain, brutal assassin father, father bangale nation presid bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman 15 august 1975 along 18 member famili includ mother, three brothers, two sisters-in law. live younger sister fortun spare countri time. stay abroad refuge six long years. mention assembl world see repetit heinous, brutal unjust kill ever.",0,train
1350,"however, bangladesh begin took initi put equal emphas live livelihood people. announc stimulu packag aim minim impact pandem busi productivity. greatli expand social safeti net coverage.",0,train
1351,"everi year, alloc around 39 billion taka freedom fighters. allow elderly, widows, destitut women, disabl backward section societi benefit approx 9.1 million families.",0,train
1352,"readili arrang food assist peopl render jobless due covid-19. arrang benefit nearli 10 million families. provid scholarship 4 million students. also given cash incent five million peopl includ farmers, worker labor affect pandemic. ensur healthcar common people, provid 30 type medicin free cost 18,000 commun clinic union health centres.",0,train
1354,announc 31-point direct soon detect covid-19 case country. launch vigor awar rais campaign well distribut person protect kit aim contain spread corona virus. result contain season diseas otherwis common country.,0,train
1355,"quickli identifi impend challeng financi sector announc 21 stimulu packages. packag includ sector exportintens industries, safeti secur workers, work capit small medium enterprises, loan facil export growth, assist farmer agriculture, loan employ generation, interest relief affect busi enterprises, refinanc scheme insur health workers. far, announc stimulu packag worth $13.25 billion, equival 4.03 per cent total gdp.",0,train
1357,"hope covid-19 vaccin soon avail world. imper treat vaccin ‘global public good.’ need ensur time avail vaccin countri time. provid technic know-how patents, pharmaceut industri bangladesh capac go vaccin product mass-scale.",0,test
1358,effort contain pandem achiev agenda 2030 go hand- in-hand. bangladesh’ second voluntari nation review  vnr  present year show well track achiev sustain develop goals.,0,test
1359,"work hard transform bangladesh middle-incom countri 2021, attain sdg 2030, develop countri 2041 prosper delta 2100.",0,test
1360,"cannot emphas import leverag science, technology, innov close digit divid mobil resourc technolog transfer. also crucial graduat ldc recent graduat one accord scaled-up intern support incent packag transit post-transit phase minim pandemic-trigg impediments.",0,train
1361,migrant worker frontlin contributor economi host home countri alike. mani lost job pandem mani sent back home. alloc $361 million returne migrant workers. critic help regain employ post-covid-19 job market. urg intern commun migrant receiv countri treat migrant worker fairli empathy.,0,train
1362,"pandem worsen pre-exist vulner climate- vulner countries. bangladesh, deal dual impact recent flood cyclon amphan even pandemic. current presid climat vulner forum  cvf  v-20 group minist finance, bangladesh would lead forum map sustain climate-resili pathway crisis. also stand readi contribut secur construct product outcom glasgow cop.",0,train
1363,"beij declar platform action help intern commun come long way ensur gender equality. celebr 25th anniversari declaration, need strengthen resolv mutual cooper address critic area concern. bangladesh, close 72.6 per cent overal gender gap. women’ contribut remain core nation development. also forefront pandem respons recoveri efforts.",0,train
1364,"bangladesh implement special programm develop children. current presid unicef execut board, lead effort address exist disparity. time, remain vigil ensur health crisi turn children’ crisis.",0,test
1365,"“friendship malic none” fundament principl foreign policy. inspir foreign polici dictum, bangladesh consist contribut intern peac secur establish cultur peace.",0,test
1366,"pandemic, see rise hate speech, xenophobia, intolerance. embrac spirit cultur peac help address worri trends. currently, largest troop polic contribut countri world peacekeep missions. peacekeep put live line secur sustain peac conflict-ravag countries. intern commun must ensur safeti security.",0,test
1367,"year celebr 20th anniversari women, peac secur agenda. one origin proponents, call due recognit women’ role peac security. alreadi formul nation action plan regard.",0,train
1369,consist strongli support global quest nuclear weapon free world. end support aspir develop countri benefit peac use nuclear technology.,0,train
1370,pain experi worst form genocid crime human nation endur struggl independ motiv us support legitim caus palestinian people.,0,train
1371,"bangladesh provid temporari shelter 1.1 million forcibl displac myanmar nationals. three year elapsed. regrettably, singl rohingya could repatriated. problem creat myanmar solut must found myanmar. request intern commun play effect role solut crisis.",0,train
1372,"pandem inde aggrav exist global challenges. also reinforc indispens multilateralism. 75th anniversari unit nations, commit multilater embodi un charter remain unflinching. nation level, despit numer challenges, commit uphold valu multilater work toward build “shonar bangla” free poverti exploit base democrat principl full enjoy human rights, envis father nation. birth centenari father nation, pledg nation world.",0,train
1373,thank again.,0,train
1374,khoda hafez.,0,train
1375,"joi bangla, joi bangabandhu",0,train
1376,"may bangladesh live forever.mr. president,",0,test
1377,"mr. secretary-general,",0,train
1378,"dear colleagues,",0,train
1379,honour privileg address 75th session unit nation gener assembly.,0,train
1380,pleas accept congratul election. wish everi success seventy-fifth un gener assembl session.,0,train
1381,"coronaviru overwhelm agenda institut throughout world. yet, theme virtual meet suggest us someth more. seventy- five year sinc inception, unit nation debt humanity.",0,train
1382,wit shrink space freedom violat human right intern law. multilater key un approach collect solidarity-bas solut global region problem put test.,0,train
1383,"circumstances, world need un ever moral leader modern world. believ un mission, drawn 75 year ago, capabl surviv crisi organ — un reviv idea born leagu nation save futur gener scourg war.",0,train
1384,un go structur crisi requir reform revitalization. un gener assembl 75th anniversari present good opportun intensifi work secur council reform. bulgaria support start negoti intergovernment level direction.,0,train
1385,"earli 2020, un secretary-gener outlin four threat humanity:",0,train
1386,¥	geopolit tension devast conflict ,0,train
1387,¥	the climat crisi ,0,train
1388,"¥	grow global mistrust,",0,train
1389,¥	the dark side digit world.,0,train
1390,"shortli afterward, new threat covid-19 multipli risk global catastrophe.",0,train
1391,covid-19 pandem threaten rule-bas intern order.,0,train
1392,fals opposit “health economy” emerged. protection caus disrupt suppli chains. asymmetr socio-econom chang exacerb inequ danger destabil conflict.,0,train
1393,"“infodemic” — wave true fals information, overwhelm people, heighten concerns.",0,train
1394,"25 march year, un secretary-general, un humanitarian affair emerg relief coordinator, unicef execut director, world health organ director-gener announc covid-19 global humanitarian respons plan. practic entir un system commit humanitarian plan.",0,test
1395,"un prove leader explor needs, fundraising, management, delivery, distribut humanitarian aid popul countri conflict crisis.",0,test
1396,bulgaria welcom adopt secur council resolut 2532  2020  secretary-general’ call global ceasefir protect vulner popul groups.,0,train
1397,"along un, continu support work mechanisms, includ world health organ world trade organization. institut contribut global, multilateral, coordin respons address immedi long-term effect covid-19, well address futur global crises.",0,train
1398,"european union region organ join un initi global respons pandemic, build mechan multilateralism. strateg respons european union multilateralism, combin competit sustain economi solidarity.",0,train
1399,"statement allianc multilateralism, bulgaria join 26 septemb 2019, line four direct un action announc secretary-gener — cybersecurity, climate, security, fight lethal autonom weapon systems.",0,test
1400,"countri took activ part alliance’ meet strengthen multilater health architecture. manner, reaffirm commit support multilater cooper fight covid-19 pandemic.",0,train
1401,"year, bulgaria mark 65th anniversari access world organization. member unit nation european union, readi take responsibilities:",0,train
1402,¥	support lead role un multilater cooper tackl global pandem ,0,test
1403,"¥	activ work implement european union’ prioriti action respons pandemic, particip time initi global respons challeng ",0,test
1404,¥	a import particip mediat integr process southeast europ ,0,train
1405,¥	contribut peacekeep oper ensur unhind access,0,test
1406,humanitarian assist ,0,train
1407,¥	a construct member human right council 2019-2021 ,0,train
1408,¥	and activ member ecosoc period 2021-2023 ,0,train
1409,¥	implement un framework convent climat chang,0,train
1410,pari agreement.,0,train
1411,"bulgaria join team europ packag part european union measur support third countri tackl pandemic. promptli restructur nation program develop humanitarian aid. one million euro earmark emerg humanitarian aid, health care, support socio-econom development.",0,train
1412,"goal support vulner group among neighbour western balkans, eastern partnership countries, syria, iraq, yemen, afghanistan, unit nation relief work agenc palestin refugees.",0,train
1413,bulgaria provid humanitarian assist kind financi contribut unicef’ activ support children suffer tragedi lebanon.,0,train
1414,"recov neg effect pandem western balkans, particularli import use establish cooper mechan effectively: berlin process — bulgaria co-chair republ north macedonia year, south-east european cooper process, region cooper council, central european free trade agreement. effort aim improv connect secur region.",0,train
1415,develop good-neighbourli relat western balkan neighbour european union member state particularli import context.,0,train
1416,"reaffirm support secretary-general’ initi action peacekeeping. un peacekeep oper epitom multilater intern solidarity. coincidentally, first oper deploy limit conting blue helmet middl east monitor ceasefir israel arab neighbours.",0,train
1417,bulgaria support lead role un effort resolv conflict region middl east north africa.,0,train
1418,"welcom us-sponsor agreement normal relat israel unit arab emirates, israel bahrain. major diplomat breakthrough could open new page histori middl east chang live peoples.",0,train
1419,suspend plan unilater annex occupi palestinian territori prevent humanitarian catastroph context ongo pandemic. also step toward avoid seriou violat human right intern law.,0,train
1420,"welcom support effort unit nation special coordin middl east peac process, nikolay mladenov.",0,train
1421,civil conflict syria remain seriou destabil factor. polit transit line un secur council resolut 2254  2015  2012 geneva communiqu singl way overcom crisi allevi situat civilian need. would also like voic country’ support african union’ effort maintain peac secur contin situat complic covid-19 pandemic.,0,train
1422,"caus seriou concern countri ongo conflict eastern ukraine, humanitarian situat continu deteriorate. bulgaria reaffirm support ukraine’ sovereignty, unity, territori integr accord un gener assembl resolut 68 262 2014. bulgaria among cosponsor resolution. support effort within normandi format achiev progress implement minsk agreements.",0,train
1423,"first donor campaign may year, bulgaria, intern committe red cross unit nation offic coordin humanitarian affairs, redirect ukrain €100,000 develop cooper funds, well packag humanitarian aid kind combat covid-19.",0,test
1424,follow situat belaru concern. bulgaria stand behind right demand belarusian peopl democrat futur free fair elections. effort intern commun aim support assist hold inclus nation dialogu peac resolut crisis.,0,test
1425,"last least, bulgaria, within nato, develop transatlant cooper solidar condit pandemic. strateg dialogu bulgaria unit states, began januari year, also cover practic dimens overcom consequ pandemic.",0,train
1426,"within framework global network “respons protect” un member states, bulgaria support need share respons prevent atroc covid-19 pandemic. recal appeal world health organ respons countri protect health safeti citizen time crisis.",0,train
1427,"global pandem also threat time implement un agenda 2030. bulgaria, togeth european union member states, fulli commit implement 17 sustain develop goal decad action.",0,train
1428,"get current crisi mean return old way life. need step new paradigm implement long-term econom measures. full implement agenda 2030, pari agreement addi ababa action plan critic prepar world futur system shocks.",0,train
1429,"un altern term develop intern law multilater cooperation. member state european union, bulgaria champion strong unit nation organ main partner solid foundat rules-bas multilater order.",0,test
1430,"conclusion, would like refer appeal two nobel peac prize winner 1994. order achiev common goals, brought us togeth forum, use imagin memory. need leap beyond imagin prevent oliv branch fall hand .",0,test
1431,"thank you, mr. presidentin name allah, gracious, merci peace, mercy, bless god",0,train
1432,"mr. president, would like, beginning, congratul elect presid gener assembl current session, wish success manag work.",0,test
1433,also thank previou presid effort conduct work last session great effici skill.,0,test
1434,"pleasur join celebr seventy-fifth anniversari unit nations, past decad contribut reinforc intern cooper preserv world peac benefit mankind.",0,train
1435,"also pleas commend tireless effort excel secretary-general, mr. antonio guterres, strengthen role organization, settl disput propos solut initiatives, order reach global order base consolid protect human rights, achiev highest level develop equal full particip member state esteem intern system.",0,train
1436,"context, kingdom bahrain stress adher respect intern obligations, repres preserv strength stabil intern system continu role achiev peace.",0,train
1437,"also share unit nation proper vision underlin import effect collect action face challeng dangers, foremost difficult condit sever development human repercuss world experienc due covid-19 pandemic.",0,test
1438,"emerg challeng proven intern commun dire need put asid differences, strengthen area human solidarity, stand unit face health threats, improv futur readi prevent risk properli fortifi societies.",0,train
1439,"hail call secretary-gener unit nation ceasefir conflict area world confront pandemic, call gain widespread global acceptance.",0,test
1440,"import context, kingdom bahrain keen, sinc first moment pandem outbreak, extend hand cooperation, solidar coordin countri world special organizations, world health organization, face difficult circumstances. form nation team, head crown prince, develop implement integr emerg plan, implement mani nation measures, line best prevent remedi practices, order preserve, first foremost, health safeti citizen resid alike. taken account urgent need mitig econom social impacts, tirelessli work diversifi support program regard, aim safeguard prosper stabil dear people, speedi recoveri nation economy.",0,train
1441,"keen preserv secur stabil region, embodi resolut approach open coexist all, announc establish relat state israel, send civil messag affirm hand extend comprehens peace, best guarante futur peopl region.",0,train
1442,"courag step taken brotherli unit arab emir reviv hope peac stabil region success bless step. reach “histor peac agreement” israel, auspic effort unit state america, exchang stop israel’ annex palestinian lands, uae enhanc opportun peace, reduc tensions, given peopl region new era understanding, rapproch peac coexistence, preserv firm posit palestinian issue. commend appreci effort exert unit state america accomplish import strateg steps.",0,train
1443,"context, kingdom bahrain call intensifi effort end palestinian-isra conflict accord two-stat solution. consid cornerston achiev comprehens peac lead establish independ palestinian state, east jerusalem capital, base resolut intern legitimaci arab peac initiative, order enter new stage work extend bridg good neighborli relat build develop common interest countri region.",0,train
1444,"good opportun use import platform, express deep appreci pioneer role hard work brotherli kingdom saudi arabia, led brother, custodian two holi mosques, king salman bin abdulaziz a1 saud, term lay foundat secur peac region world whole, manner take account interest parties, also remark influenti effort made current presid g20 formul “new decade”, aspir peopl world prosper stabil fulfilled. so, underlin firm approach countri stand alongsid kingdom saudi arabia posit circumstances.",0,train
1445,"also cannot fail express full support continu effort brotherli arab republ egypt consolid region secur stability, genuin endeavor achiev peace, recent initi brother presid abdel fattah al sisi, gave hope brotherli libyan peopl confront resist foreign interference, contribut rebuild capabl region’ countries, base egypt’ pioneer role protect maintain arab nation security.",0,test
1446,"mr. president, distinguish audience,",0,train
1447,"success prosper societi link achiev secur stability, kingdom bahrain alway pursued.",0,train
1448,"activ countri within wider intern community, underlin need acceler effort achiev human prosper strengthen area solidar consensu umbrella global goals. commit sinc foundat long-stand organization, congratul anniversari establish renew start crucial moment contemporari history.",0,train
1449,"proud part play this, commit support unit nation order reach desir destin achiev legitim aspir peopl rebuild bridg trust love, reach secure, stabl peac world.",0,test
1450,"thank you, mr. president, may peac upon you.colleagu head state govern ",0,train
1451,"un secretary-general, excel antonio guterr ",0,train
1452,"presid gener assembly, excel volkan bazkir ",0,test
1453,excellencies:,0,train
1454,good afternoon.,0,train
1455,"permit outset congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly, assur unwav support govern commonwealth bahama tenure.",0,train
1456,"also wish thank predecessor, excel tiijani muhammad-bande, stellar effort guid work 74th session gener assembly.",0,train
1457,address assembl time world still reel seismic level shock covid-19 pandem unleash global community.,0,test
1458,covid-19 pandem trigger unpreced crisi halt global econom activ threaten global public health social well-being.,0,train
1459,twenty-seven million confirm covid-19 case across globe continu increas speak.,0,train
1460,"behalf govern peopl bahamas, express solidar member state fight covid-19 extend sincer condol loss life.",0,train
1461,"address assembl last year, aftermath hurrican dorian, implor world leader treat global climat emerg greatest challeng face humanity.",0,train
1462,"littl know month later, even greater challeng would emerge, forc world come grind halt, proport wit sinc second world war.",0,train
1463,"hence, theme 75th session, futur want, unit nation need reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action, relev applic current reality.",0,train
1464,tourism serv main econom earner bahamas.,0,train
1467,"small island develop countri like bahama alway appear oper viciou recoveri mode cycle, deal success exogen shock climat events.",0,train
1468,"bahama experienc major hurrican 2015, 2016, 2017, septemb 2018, hurrican dorian, largest atlant storm record history.",0,train
1469,"un initi assess valu loss damag incur $3.4 billion. infrastructur hous project ongoing, grappl impact covid19, continu reach intern partner much-need assist restor rebuild islands.",0,train
1470,"donor confer coordin unit nation develop programm held nassau 13 januari 2020, wish express heartfelt appreci govern pledg financi resourc assist made conference. govern look forward full realiz pledg made essenti ongo recoveri efforts.”",0,train
1471,"economi small island develop states, includ caribbean community, constant assault variou extern shock beyond control.",0,train
1472,"group countri among disaster- prone area world. pandemics, hurricanes, climat events, discrimin low-incom countries, middle-incom countries, develop economies.",0,train
1473,"henc compel question remains, middle-incom countri still assess intern financi institut use outdat methodolog give consider country’ level exposure, vulner abil recov exogen shocks.",0,train
1474,note eclac’ review covid-19 impact estim development achiev caribbean latin america revers least decade.,0,train
1475,world bank project point least 100 million peopl fall extrem poverty.,0,test
1476,therefor reiter call institution vulner index decision-mak process intern financi institut intern donor community.,0,train
1477,also echo call region capit caribbean resili fund.,0,train
1478,"decis g20 group suspend debt servic payment least develop countri commendable, offer concess extend econom group well.",0,train
1479,"given immeasur stress strain place global health care system suppli chains, commend secretary-gener continu effort combat pandemic.",0,train
1480,"remain cautious optimist viabl covid-19 vaccin distant future, note collabor effort covax facil secur arrang develop countries.",0,train
1481,develop countri abl access vaccin via transpar procur process afford market rates.,0,train
1482,"salut doctors, nurses, healthcar worker frontline, sacrif health order assist ten million peopl around world.",0,train
1483,"real heroes, global commun owe immens gratitude.",0,train
1484,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations, allow pandem dampen spirit detract commemor august institut extens list achiev milestones.",0,train
1485,"multilater been, continu be, effect conduit small island state voic heard polici requir advanced.",0,train
1486,"globally, continu see unpreced climat environment challenges. worldwide, declin 85 per cent area viabl wetlands.",0,train
1487,"scientif review reveal sixti per cent ocean area impact advers human activ includ overfishing, pollut acidif chemicals.",0,train
1488,bahama continu play role preserv healthi marin land environ includ expans marin protect area heritag sites.,0,train
1489,therefor welcom schedul biodivers summit 30 september.,0,train
1490,continu remain activ engag negoti toward intern treati sustain use conserv marin biodivers area beyond nation jurisdiction.,0,train
1491,"context, pleas inform bahama seek renew membership council intern maritim organization, count invalu support member state re-election.",0,train
1492,covid-19 pandem spur acceler util access inform commun technolog especi young peopl econom challeng communities.,0,test
1493,"trend must continu post covid-19 environment, well promot stem career young peopl educ potenti act great equalizer.",0,train
1494,bahama care formul gradual re-open countri visitors. hope welcom tourist year.,0,train
1495,"however, adjust new normal, acknowledg countri surviv pandem alone.",0,train
1496,"also take occas reiter support end economic, commerci financi embargo cuba.",0,test
1497,"accordingly, bahama join intern commun vote favor gener assembly’ annual resolut agenda item.",0,train
1498,"pleas assur bahamas’ unwav commit unit nation pledg adher always, un charter principl organ founded.",0,train
1499,"thank you.dear president,",0,train
1501,"human life general, that, aspect social life, aren’t mani thing import dialogue. therefore, utmost import that, year well, despit health crisis, largest dialogu platform mankind still happening.",0,train
1502,"first all, would like congratul mr. tijjani muhammad-band highli success presid 74th session unit nation gener assembly. would like put particular emphasi that, mind effort mr. band put forth, along unit nation secretary-general, mr. antonio guterres, order enabl gener assembl held year.",0,train
1503,"would also like congratul mr. volkan bozkir elected, messag alway count full support bosnia herzegovina secur product work gener assembl follow year.",0,train
1504,"dear president,",0,train
1506,"time, danger plagu has, instant, block physic contact traffic continents, regions, states, and, eventually, everyday meet people. way effici fight physic distanc other. mind human habit people’ need socialize, demanding, and, end, even traumatic, caus enorm damage, primarili economy, overal qualiti life. still, one forget due lack vaccin proper therapy, way fight human lives, preserv import econom growth anyth else.",0,train
1507,"even though, within first wave pandemic, physic distanc other, strong solidar emerg brought us closer together, internationally, within specif societies. opportun wit numer communities, time fight deadli pandemic, still provid assist others, vulner  allow turn inward lock down.",0,train
1508,behalf bosnia herzegovina would like thank friend come aid  let us alon difficult moments.,0,train
1509,"although great resourc disposal, also tri respond appeal aid.",0,test
1510,"like great misfortune, one also remind us much direct one another, import friends.",0,test
1511,"particularli appreci fact bosnia herzegovina, although eu member state, includ eu public procur system. would like use opportun point vaccin coronaviru must avail entir mankind.",0,train
1512,"indisput fact past years, strong crisi multilater present scene. intern organ general, includ unit nations, becom object strong challeng even dispute.",0,train
1513,"allow share observ multilater organizations, even time pandemic, shown extraordinari signific today’ global world, base interdepend necess constant cooperation. pandem shown largest problem today longer solv one, three, five state individually. difficulti solv transnational, multilater response, base dialogu cooper mani state possible.",0,train
1514,"particularli abl wit european continent, histor agreement packag econom recoveri european union worth two trillion euros, indic european uniti extrem strong serv exampl part world.",0,train
1515,"strength european union also demonstr fact direct enorm financi resourc serv needs, rather also support countries, includ bosnia herzegovina, countri road toward membership european union.",0,train
1516,"bosnia herzegovina would also like use opportun express gratitud toward european union strong support receiv economi health care system, extraordinari stabil potential.",0,train
1517,"eu assist packag bosnia herzegovina, worth 300 million euro total, purpos resolut econom consequ pandemic, certainli addit strengthen commit european integration, and, time, secured, european union, stabil nearest neighborhood.",0,train
1518,"end year mark 25 year sinc sign dayton peac accord, stop war bosnia herzegovina. moment signed, accord seem frail untenable, yet proven strong resili stabil framework manag resist numer challenges.",0,train
1519,"main problem dayton peac accord fact part implement all, implement partially. annex iv, constitut bosnia herzegovina, presuppos full implement entir accord. defici remedied. dayton peac accord must fulli implement  decis intern court must respect equal right citizen must secur accord european convent human rights. particularli pertain expel person return place resid war.",0,train
1520,"past twenty-f year bosnia herzegovina live peace, irreplac signific mind experi 1990s, well experi numer crisi area emerg throughout world.",0,train
1521,"talk shortcom dayton peac accord, never forget peac accord, whose primari goal secur implement sophist constitut standards, quit natur requir updat possibl wide polit consensus.",0,train
1522,high signific relev polit subject countri deepli awar fact foundat dayton peac accord chang wide consensu agreement all.,0,train
1523,"course, situat mean quick simpl changes, and, therefore, quick simpl progress mani expect demand. time, situat guarante bosnia herzegovina, signific level secur protection.",0,train
1524,"gener consensu bosnia herzegovina irreplac signific preserv peace, thus, peac accord base upon. give hope future, societi bosnia herzegovina increasingli preoccupi issu development, enter new phase histor road.",0,train
1525,bosnia herzegovina share concern un gener assembl due unresolv conflict current crisi areas.,0,train
1526,"offer full support un secretary-gener antonio guterres’ call global ceasefire, escal coronaviru pandemic.",0,train
1527,"even though, recently, decreas violenc syria, quit awar fact conflict continu sporad forms, particularli concern extrem difficult humanitarian situat intern displac person syria.",0,train
1528,"concern progress achiev end conflict libya, yemen ukraine, and, therefore, call intens involv bodi intern commun order achiev perman end conflicts.",0,train
1529,"bosnia herzegovina believ secur perman peac stabil relat israel palestin achiev diplomat efforts, within framework intern law, and, therefore, offer full support efforts.",0,train
1530,bosnia herzegovina support dialogu pristina belgrad led auspic european union unit state america.,0,train
1531,"bosnia herzegovina serious, reliabl resolut partner strengthen european secur area  activ contribut region effort goal strengthen stabil secur western balkans.",0,test
1532,"countri constantli strengthen capac combat terrorism, form violent extremism, intern crime, manufactur traffick narcotics. bosnia herzegovina particip region intern initi contribut intern security, past period, made complet turn countri requir intern assist sens militari missions, becam countri whose soldier polic offic partak peac mission throughout world.",0,test
1533,"good cooper neighbor countri numer issues, place issu relationship neighbor top foreign polici priorities. goal resolv open issu neighbor dialogue, base principl mutual respect reciproc full respect intern law.",0,train
1534,"respect wish convey concern citizen bosnia herzegovina, due fact import issues, issu agreement state border, resolv neighbor countries. bosnia herzegovina sign agreement state border montenegro, yet, today, agreement sign serbia croatia. bosnia herzegovina believ agreement need conclud soon possible, full respect intern recogn border bosnia herzegovina full support consist implement intern law.",0,train
1536,"plan addit strengthen compet institutions, deal issue, protect border, increas assist local commun suffer greatest burden crisis. order fulli resolv issue, need much greater support european union, well cooper countri migrant origin from.",0,test
1537,"migrant intent stay bosnia herzegovina. goal go toward western europe. enter western balkan region, bosnia herzegovina, european union, then, western border bosnia herzegovina, barrier place unnecessarili linger bosnia herzegovina, repres enorm problem us.",0,train
1539,"furthermore, tri sign appropri readmiss agreement countri migrant origin from. countri manag achiev agreement, use opportun call upon countries, whose citizen bosnia herzegovina, join us process.",0,test
1540,"seriou social problem bosnia herzegovina emigr young educ people. struggl democrat deficit, develop countri european union attract young educ peopl bosnia herzegovina offer significantli favor job overal existenti opportun well-regul systems.",0,train
1541,"way us effici fight trend, build societi base principl equal opportunities, polit stabil legal security, possibl young peopl plan future.",0,train
1542,"slowly, persistently, approach goal thank particularli credibl perspect eu membership. regard, start implement oblig opinion european commiss regard applic bosnia herzegovina eu membership, expect compet institut fulfil entir set oblig soon possibl upcom period.",0,train
1543,"furthermore, equal import continu fulfil oblig bosnia herzegovina regard relat nato, unreservedli endors law decis adopt institut bosnia herzegovina issue.",0,train
1544,"despit difficulti functioning, bosnia herzegovina slowli make progress, ultim commit remain build safe, stabl prosper state, will, equal member intern community, contribut safeti prosper global community.",0,test
1546,"naturally, speaker ignor topic coronaviru pandemic.",0,train
1547,"pandem affect us all. moreover, problem remain us, least near future.",0,train
1548,lead expert analyst activ talk global consequ impact world polit economy.,0,train
1549,mani assess speak “paradigm shifts” “tecton changes”.,0,test
1550,perhaps. time tell.,0,train
1551,"unfortunately, pandem made clear “intern community” talk often has, fact, fail live expect peak crisis.",0,test
1552,logic easier cope challeng go alon obvious prevailed.,0,train
1553,"virtual everybodi return drove apart countri origin, close border stop contact outsid world!",0,train
1554,"respond challenge, belaru follow consid dubiou path. close isol ourselves.",0,train
1555,immedi ask question: promot global open one anoth past decades?,0,test
1556,initi believ continu believ success collect efforts. reli continu reli potenti “intern community.,0,train
1557,"unfortunately, without exploitation, wherebi countri begun accus other allegedli wrong thing fight pandemic.",0,train
1559,"current situation, specif nation context becam determin factor fight coronavirus.",0,train
1560,"belarus, chose approach.",0,train
1561,"base two compon optim preserv viabil state, primarili economy, ensur maximum protect population.",0,train
1562,"approach, situat belaru shown, paid off. situat concern spread coronaviru diseas world today fulli confirm this.",0,train
1563,"mani assess conclusions, today alreadi say certainti outbreak coronaviru disease, one hand, reveal urgent need “strong” state and, other, clearli show interconnect world is.",0,train
1565,togeth must turn crisi opportun improv world. must learn work together.,0,train
1566,"pandem temporarili overshadow world problem conflicts, includ area security, which, unfortunately, decreasing.",0,test
1567,"regard, seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation  un  end second world war, found member unit nations, republ belaru appeal member states, particularli member secur council, take special respons organization’ oper implement tasks.",0,train
1569,world lack now.,0,train
1570,"forgotten dialogu is, and, even remember, forgotten use it.",0,train
1573,"year again, gener assembl first committee, propos draft resolut ban new weapon mass destruction, tradit enjoy univers support virtual everi member state organization. call state co-sponsor support draft resolution.",0,train
1574,"refer anniversari end second world war, would like stress deep convict one countri suffer greatest loss it.",0,train
1575,tragic lesson twentieth century’ worst catastroph must remain key compon “herd immunity” emerg new global region confrontations.,0,train
1576,"charter unit nation states, organ found precis “save succeed gener scourg war”.",0,train
1577,cooper base principl charter altern “natur selection” “surviv fittest”.,0,train
1578,"given modern technolog inform capabl avail states, also non-stat actors, must fulli awar risk caus political, econom militari confrontation, irrespons competit provoc undesir countries.",0,test
1579,one import point.,0,train
1580,"regret note grow attempt countri abus un tribune, includ secur council, satisfi narrow polit ambitions.",0,train
1581,"refer to, among things, focus attent certain western countri situat belarus, current difficult owe circumst impos us, from, all, outside.",0,train
1582,"let remind everyon peopl made decis presidenti elect belaru august, choos favour stabl prosper state, peace, good neighbourli sustain development.",0,train
1583,"however, instead respect choice, see aspir influenc situat country.",0,train
1584,"sinc fail attempt impos “colour revolution” us, experienc extern interfer aim undermin state system.",0,train
1585,"individu statements, border cynicism, western neighbour alleg concern belarus’ sovereignti welfar fact noth attempt plung countri chao anarchy, set belaru back develop mani years.",0,test
1586,"urg partner show wisdom, restraint impartiality.",0,train
1588,"futur republ belaru decid people, repeatedli demonstr throughout country’ history. decid barricades, civil dialogue, includ process constitut reform, alreadi begun country.",0,train
1589,would like stress firmli reject practic unilater coerciv measur intern relations.,0,test
1590,"vivid exampl action decades-long trade, financi econom blockad cuba northern neighbour — unit states.",0,test
1591,mainten “suffocating” instrument pressur sovereign state — without even consid situat caus coronaviru diseas pandem — pose specif threat fraught last repercussions. trade war arbitrari financi econom sanction instrument polit pressur must stop.,0,test
1592,"anoth critic issu “health” global economy, seriou trouble. pandem threaten undo achiev sinc adopt 2030 agenda sustain development.",0,train
1593,"urgent need chang approach socioeconom develop postpandem era becom increasingli clear. belaru support propos increas invest health care, infrastructur education, provid broad access digit technolog ensur proper manag natur resources.",0,test
1594,share endors approach boost econom recoveri rethink econom model term promot “green economy”.,0,train
1595,"part, belaru continu move consist toward achiev sustain develop goals, base 2030 agenda. country’ effort aim achiev balanc econom develop protect environment, promot principl green economy, implement “smart city” concept develop precis agriculture. work carri involv stakehold within countri close cooper intern partners.",0,test
1597,"conclusion, would like note simpl import life lesson: “everi cloud silver lining”. born wit transform events.",0,test
1598,"indeed, 2020 special year world, forc us restructur life humankind. new histori written eye — world longer before. learn lessons, must carri past mistak future. must build new world — friendli people, free war conflicts, stable, predict prosperous. world arm benefit technolog progress use development, destruction.",0,train
1599,"day one hear lot critic un. sometim justified, sometim not.",0,train
1600,republ belaru emphat share follow message: organ must keep pace times.,0,train
1601,"republ belaru signatori countri un charter, assum respons promot implement main goal organization. countri continu work preserv develop creativ unifi principl un.excellency,",0,train
1602,"interest see econom social council, like entir un develop system, provid effect assist state implement sustain develop goals.",0,test
1603,"need effect effici un secur council put end numer war arm conflicts, includ take account need preserv territori integr compli intern law.",0,train
1604,want see activ gener assembl — make time import decis entir spectrum press world problems.,0,test
1605,"renew time, organ remain need peopl planet.",0,train
1606,"begin intervent pay tribut men women worldwid selflessli hold line defens covid-19 care protect love ones, risk live doing. also honor memori mani die date die even speak, unfortun victim insidi virus.",0,train
1607,"belize, work assidu contain spread. inde close borders, impos curfews, mandat use mask social distancing, quarantin infect person search test person come contact person known carri virus.",0,train
1608,health calam avoid thu far suffer wors econom shock histori country.,0,train
1610,"noc chair prime minist leader opposition. represent churches, privat sector, civil societi trade unions. govern also establish covid-19 task force, chair chief execut offic ministri human develop social transformation. frontlin agenc social partner includ task force. task forc manag day day public health respons communications. regretfully, june 2020, leader opposit resign noc.",0,train
1611,"govern took immedi step shore health facilities, and, time, put place measur eas econom blow belizean includ introduct $10-million programm food assist us$24.5m programm unemploy relief.",0,train
1613,"effort initi puni comparison magnitud impact pandemic. econom growth expect contract 20 25 per cent, much three time global average. and, still sure seen wors pandemic.",0,train
1615,truli present caught cross hair two grave crise hardli limit natur resourc determin surviv bolster position.,0,train
1616,"regretfully, intern respons covid pandemic, unlik respons climat catastrophe, continu tepid weaker nation peopl bear brunt ravag global missteps.",0,train
1617,"blame superced coordin cooper  platitud superced support vulnerable. two crise lay bare system ineptitud global financi econom institut inequ rule decis make procedures. rich power nation fixat preserv competit advantage, seemingli heedless failur institut suffer peopl whose need ostens design cater to.",0,train
1618,consequ global misstep particularli evid small island develop state worldwide.,0,train
1619,"even though least culpabl missteps, affect consequences. forc pay debilit debt must absorb antiqu notion develop measur incom per capita regard endem vulnerability. pay lost decad develop develop potenti temperatur rise sea around us. face pandemic, main global polici option parad us would us pay recovery. this, mr. president, gravest social injustic unit nation cannot afford perpetuate.",0,train
1620,"simpli put, none us luxuri time repeat folli past fals hope produc differ results. bush fire west coast unit states, hyperact atlant hurrican season, drought central america, flood africa global pandem stark remind fast approach limit planetari sustain human survival. scienc give us decade, much, cours correct. stake could higher — includ unit nation seventi five year work toward includ vaunt 2030 agenda sustain development, pari agreement. multilater frontline.",0,train
1621,"us belize, next step unit nation manifest.",0,test
1623,pandem also reveal entrench dualiti have nots. intern commun must therefor elev protect vulner highest priority.,0,train
1624,"pandem provid preview risk expos continu busi usual. must therefor nation rise unison challeng reset global trajectori planet people, line alreadi agre multilater agenda: erad poverty, secur climat future, ensur human right justic all.",0,test
1625,behalf beliz small island develop state repres wish put forward five point action agenda unit nations.,0,train
1626,"first, let us get recoveri right.",0,train
1627,"tragedi covid-19 symptomat tragedi commons. push planetari boundari beyond sustain humanity, threaten health much earth. occur land ocean. recoveri covid-19 opportun acceler recoveri unsustain use planetari resourc build resili futur shocks.",0,train
1628,secretary-gener unit nation champion six climate- relat action shape recoveri work ahead.,0,train
1629,"core, principl people. promot job security, healthi environments. sustain growth transit climat resili environment sensit global economy.",0,train
1630,"principl operationalized, take us well beyond recoveri set us pathway jumpstart climat rescu safeguard children’ future.",0,train
1631,futur depend hold global warm well 1.5 c.,0,train
1632,"therefor second challenge, must keep pressur major emitt increas climat ambit acceler climat action 1.5c.",0,train
1633,"2020 deadlin bring forward new climat plan strengthen target climat action strategi achiev net zero emiss 2050. yet see level ambit need bend emiss curv close mitig gap 1.5. beliz commend china announc pursu path carbon neutral 2060 look forward forthcom climat plans. imper histor respons walk walk. beliz urg unit kingdom incom presid twenty-sixth climat chang conference, european union, unit state america put best plan forward close year.",0,train
1634,"beliz state placencia ambit forum, small island develop state resolv deliv ambiti climat plan inde trailblazers. beliz come forward climat plan. nation determin contribut featur commit enhanc natur base solut amid grow global awar potenti ecosystem contribut rais climat ambit foster sustain development.",0,train
1635,natur base solut reli viabil ecosystem biodivers support. reason unit nation must third challeng address urgenc protect biodiversity.,0,train
1636,"biodivers loss ecosystem degrad like climat chang occur unpreced rates. acceler result continu precipit irrevers harm earth systems. fail stop revers trend, damag global economic, social polit resili stabil signific render achiev sdg impossible.",0,train
1637,"recognit crisis, beliz join leader’ pledg natur set urgent action taken within next decad “put natur biodivers path recoveri 2030”.",0,train
1638,"part pledge, commit final matter prioriti high sea treati conserv sustain use marin biolog diversity. high sea cover nearli two-third  64%  world’ ocean, around one percent water protect today. vast area planet warrant protect conserv biodivers maintain healthi ocean.",0,train
1639,"invit join leader’ pledge, endors action part global commit un decad action sustain development.",0,train
1640,"evid forego actions, object whether recov better, increas climat ambition, revers biodivers loss, safeguard sustain develop agenda.",0,train
1641,"covid-19 chang script decad action sustain development. like hurricane, pandem cataclysmic. year hard-earn develop gain vanished. wors yet, countri like own, concern global polici respons pauciti action persist challeng climat biodivers entrench poverty. uncertain terms, face develop emergency.",0,train
1642,"must sure match stimulu climat goals, must develop goals. integr natur action cannot underestimated. reason, beliz capac chair allianc small island state advoc use 2030 agenda sustain develop togeth samoa pathway intern agre develop goal chart way forward challeng face. need reinvention. need implement renew commit resuscit collect develop goals. pandem thrown us afield sdg track, also need lend hand whose leg complet cut them.",0,train
1643,fourth challeng put unit nation give credenc principl leav one behind.,0,train
1644,small island develop state like beliz engag debt-fuel recoveri salvag chanc sustain develop qualifi concessionari finance. denial access financ amount breach intern commit support special case sids.,0,test
1645,"per capita incom longer defin whether sid access finance. high time final replac pervers income-bas criteria robust vulner base criteria look level poverty, indebtedness, exposur natur disast extern shocks. aosi call upon secretary-gener final deliv multi-dimension vulner index twenty-f year overdue.",0,train
1646,"state forum financ develop era covid-19 beyond, tradit develop tool proven ineffect covid-19 continu prove point. new develop tool need creat exist one adapted. inclus tailor measur sid focu debt relief, cancel restructur urgent needed.",0,test
1647,countri chair aosi therefor call sid compact access financ specif polici option would address:,0,train
1648,"~ liquidity, solvenc enabl green, resili recoveri sid ~ effici access financ well increas mobil expand provis concessionari grant base financ",0,train
1649,~ innov sourc financ facilit privat sector engag sid ,0,train
1650,~ increas access climat financ address immin need sid adapt address loss damag result irrevers impact climat chang,0,train
1651,"sid compact small island develop states, matter fall anachronist develop chain. barrier result exclus must eliminated. connect beliz add voic overwhelm call respect demand complet reject unilater coerciv measur impos sister island, cuba. despit cuba’ hardships, histor humanitarian commit etho servic solidar demonstr deploy medic personnel henri reev brigad mani countries, includ belize, assist effort fight covid-19 pandemic.",0,train
1652,"stand convict sovereign equals, peopl without discrimination, without exception, must benefit promis charter, right therein includ right self-determination.",0,train
1653,right self determin also applic peopl republ china  taiwan  continu exclus un institut contrari goal organisation. beliz call full particip taiwan un system. manifest possess capac exemplifi success effect approach covid-19 outreach alli countries.,0,test
1654,"beliz would also wish reiter solidar palestinian people, continu suffer illeg occup  fulli support aspir independ state, within 1967 borders, attend rights. urg israel continu work toward realis dream two state solution.",0,train
1655,bring final fifth challeng — reform.,0,train
1656,"sinc reckon millennium develop goals, one narr clear unchanged. progress, progress uneven. expect differ come sustain develop goal continu without purpos reform institut level multilater play field.",0,train
1657,"2008 financi crisi emerg trend respons covid 19 crisi portend, contemporari multilater institut includ global financi institut embodi system bia power. result forg global polici succumb pressur power politics, margin alreadi vulner groups.",0,test
1658,"disappointingli so, member aosi seen time tirelessli advoc collect ambiti climat action urgenc show increment progress.",0,train
1659,"led mani small island develop state ponder whether inde seat gener assembl celebr un’ centenary. presid kabua marshal island recent stated: “in face planet’ existenti challenge, unit nation member must contempl futur inact bring — one rank nobl institut may diminished.”",0,train
1660,system chang needed. multilater system institut must reform inclus advanc vision share respons share prosperity. voic margin must centralized. polici exclus exception bane multilater must replac polici inclusion.,0,train
1661,beliz continu pursu peac settlement guatemala claim countri particip fulli legal process intern court justice.,0,train
1662,2020 humanity’ defin moment.,0,train
1663,wit rampant injustic peopl even greatest nation amongst us continu suffer.,0,train
1664,come term fallaci institut winner take policies.,0,train
1665,doom gloom.,0,train
1666,"learn sacrific frontlin workers, heroes, end matter compassion, selfless task look one another.",0,test
1667,multilater frontlin confid aris dark moment stronger resili nation unite.thank much. pleasur honour share assembl hall you.,0,train
1668,time latin america seen clearli must choos two road lie it.,0,train
1669,two road lead — mani intellectu region assert — either toward left right  statism neo-liber  social capitalism.,0,train
1670,"two roads, one must choose, simpler. one road freedom road oppression.",0,train
1671,"words, face dilemma aris choic democraci dictatorship. short, face dilemma modernity.",0,train
1672,"creat state oppress guarante freedom? ladi gentlemen, time choose.",0,train
1673,"let us admit that, general, latin america overcom threat authoritarianism.",0,train
1674,let us conced import peopl latin american polit remain thrall authoritarian temptation.,0,train
1675,"and, consequently, let us accept mani societi risk surrend new form authoritarian oppression.",0,train
1676,new form authoritarian threaten sever nations?,0,train
1677,simpli pursuit caudillismo authoritarian populism.,0,train
1678,"encourag appropri and, necessary, kidnap public life caudillo caste.",0,train
1679,"matter parties, arm forces, union ideologies. sum, noth organ institut conceiv common good.",0,train
1680,individu pursuit power.,0,train
1681,"pursuit aspir see caudillo cast gain complet control polit sphere, culture, economi ultim freedom people.",0,train
1682,"found idea privilege. and, reason, run contrari idea rights.",0,train
1683,system few. system castes. system polit elites. system polit clan.,0,test
1684,"short, latin america road offer caudillismo authoritarian populism. also anoth path, differ oppos caudillismo authoritarian populism, respect peopl base democracy. effect, live populist era, latin america option build polit coexistence, base republican tradit — tradit freedom.",0,test
1685,road build bolivia. road lead toward return power people. road lead toward valid rule law.,0,train
1686,road lead toward overcom decad populist authoritarian caudillismo. road lead toward restor freedom citizens.,0,train
1687,precis order build road freedom support fair transpar elect 18 october.,0,train
1688,support despit fact propon caudillisto popul attempt stop sabotag brutal violent action week ago.,0,test
1689,"action includ block highway oxygen intend patient fallen ill covid-19 would get by. extraordinarili inhuman cruel way sow chao terror. action led death damage, eye law clearli seen crime humanity.",0,train
1690,"bolivian people, however, courag determinedli stop organ systemat attempt overthrow democraci reinstal dictatorship bolivia. peopl decid turn page leav behind populist dictatorship.",0,train
1691,"peopl longer want see govern build palac museum dedic caudillo. peopl want democracy, health care, employment, educ opportunities.",0,test
1692,decis current govern invest 10 per cent nation budget health care import step bolivia.,0,train
1693,also effort made health care import achiev three month achiev decad country. involv thousand health-car job initi equip hospit treat free charg thousand citizen contract coronaviru disease.,0,test
1694,"similarly, keep purpos establish republ — govern people, govern law govern devot polit freedom — establish bolivia support system people, unpreced history.",0,train
1695,pandem remind us enorm import help one another.,0,train
1696,"remind us christian valu care one another. remind us ethic mutual help path lead toward healthi coexist among peopl consid brother sisters, free equal.",0,train
1697,"support assist system establish base provid cash voucher popul — directli bolivian families, special emphasi peopl famili need.",0,train
1698,"well then, view two road freedom oppression, took liberti expound upon, pleasur say assembl bolivia chosen road freedom.",0,train
1699,would remiss conclud statement without condemn world systemat abus assault kirchnerist govern carri argentina institut republican valu bolivia.,0,test
1700,"noth nobl argentin people. moreover, nation esteem love like brother. noth peronism, valu polit tradit — nation popular tradit — drive forc behind enorm achiev social modern argentina.",0,train
1701,"tradit familiar bolivia 1952 revolution, exemplifi nation popular tradition, set stage extraordinari progress regard equal social justice.",0,train
1702,"harbour bitter toward governments, govern havana, agre ideologically. maintain due respect courtesi character relat two sovereign state two brotherli peoples, share common history.",0,test
1703,"case argentin govern different. involv behaviour describ earlier spoke populist castes, hesit use frankli abus method carri plans, obtain power take stand run contrari promot freedom.",0,train
1704,argentin government’ author make interfer key foreign polici toward bolivia? author protect violent conspiraci evo moral bolivian democraci argentin soil?,0,train
1705,"even worse, author argentin govern offer impun evo moral case seriou nation intern investig way former dictator, human right violations, sexual violat girl underag women, complic polit murder?",0,test
1706,kirchnerist popul know bolivian nation privat properti caste. sovereign respect people.,0,train
1707,bolivia respected. bolivian democraci respected. bolivian peopl respect themselves.,0,train
1708,"fail mention maritim issu speech. call intern commun new time resolv negoti fratern understand critic pend problem states, bolivia’ lack sovereign access pacif ocean.",0,test
1709,"bolivia chosen freedom. chosen republic. matter enemi are, import thing democracy, freedom, institut republican valu come stay bolivia.",0,train
1710,"invit world look elector process, which, unlik promot evo moral last year, clean free fraud. invit world look system aid, bond solidarity, launch bolivia histor stage assist need most.",0,train
1711,"invit world visit us, peopl that, despit mani political, social, econom health difficulties, look forward courage, freedom joy.",0,train
1712,"thank much. god bless you.mr. presid unit nation gener assembly, volkan bozkir,",0,train
1713,"mr. secretary-gener unit nations, antonio guterres, pleas greet mother tongue, head state, govern delegation,",0,train
1714,"honor open assembl togeth repres sovereign nations, point time world need truth overcom challenges.",0,train
1715,"covid-19 becom center attent cours year and, first all, wish express sorrow everi life lost.",0,train
1716,"beginning, country, warn two problem solve, viru joblessness, issu address simultan sens responsibility.",0,train
1717,"determin court rule brazil, measur involv social distanc restrict movement deleg 27 governor federation. president, turn, assign respons send resourc nationwide.",0,train
1718,"case much world, segment brazilian media also politic viru spread panic among population. motto “stay home” “we deal economi later on”, almost brought social chao country.",0,train
1719,administr bold step put place sever econom measur prevent greater evil.,0,train
1720,"emerg relief grant instal ad approxim $1,000 65 million people, largest assist program poorest brazil perhap one largest world.",0,train
1721,$100 billion alloc cover health relat action help small micro enterpris  measur also taken offset loss revenu collect state local governments.,0,train
1722,"200,000 indigen famili assist foodstuff covid prevent efforts.",0,train
1723,"close contact healthcar professionals, encourag earli treatment disease.",0,test
1724,"$400 million dedic research, develop product oxford vaccin brazil. brazil, hospit lack mean cater covid patients.",0,train
1725,"pandem teach us major lesson, cannot possibl depend nation product essenti input mean survival. hydroxychloroquin input product alon 500 per cent price increas onset pandemic.",0,train
1726,"brazil thu open develop state-of-the-art technolog innov efforts, 4.0 industry, artifici intelligence, nanotechnolog 5g technology, partner respect sovereignti cherish freedom data protection.",0,train
1727,"brazil, despit world crisis, agricultur product never stopped. farmer work harder ever, produc food feed 1 billion people.",0,train
1728,"brazil inde help continu feed world. truck drivers, maritime, port aviat worker kept entir logist chain fulli activ ensur distribut domest export markets.",0,train
1729,"agribusi remain vibrant thrive and, all, respect best environment legisl planet.",0,train
1730,"even so, victim brutal disinform campaign amazon brazilian wetlands.",0,train
1731,brazilian amazon known immens rich. explain support given intern institut disinform campaign anchor shadi interest coupl exploit unpatriot brazilian associ purpos undermin govern brazil itself.,0,train
1732,leader come conserv tropic rainforests. world’ cleanest diversifi energi mix.,0,train
1733,"even one world’ ten largest economies, account 3 per cent carbon emiss worldwide.",0,test
1734,"provid food secur one sixth world’ population, even preserv 66 per cent nativ veget use 27 per cent territori anim husbandri agriculture. figur countri has.",0,train
1735,brazil stand world’ largest produc foodstuffs. reason strong interest spread disinform environment.,0,train
1736,"open world offer best, i.e., agricultur products. never export much. world increasingli reli brazil feed itself.",0,test
1737,"tropic rainforest allow fire spread within it. fire outbreak tend occur virtual places, eastern surround forest, brazilian indigen ancestri burn farmland search livelihood alreadi clear areas.",0,train
1738,"crimin fire outbreak fought stringenc determination. stand zero toler polici toward environment crime. togeth congress, sought land regular view identifi perpetr crimin acts.",0,train
1739,"may call mind amazon region larger whole western europe. hence, difficulti fight fire outbreaks, also illeg log biopiracy. response, current expand enhanc use technolog improv inter-ag operations, includ engag arm forces.",0,train
1741,"concern environ goe beyond forests. brazil’ nation marin debri program, one first initi kind, design strategi coastline, span 8,500 km.",0,train
1742,"accordingly, brazil made everi effort cop25 madrid establish, provis pari agreement, effect intern carbon market. unfortunately, however, forc protection prevailed.",0,train
1744,brazil deem import respect freedom navig establish unit nation convent law sea.,0,train
1745,"accordingly, environment protect rule must respect crimin act investig time fashion, ensur crimin offens perpetr brazil affect countries.",0,train
1746,"brazil stand environment preserv front, also humanitarian human right agenda, area brazil becom intern benchmark refer given commit dedic support venezuelan refuge reach brazil border state roraima.",0,train
1748,"4,000 brazilian member militari taken part operation, consist humanitarian logist task forc view welcoming, shelter intern newli arriv famili border.",0,train
1749,"found member unit nations, brazil commit basic principl un charter: peac intern security, cooper among nations, respect human right fundament freedoms. organ reach 75th anniversary, opportun renew commit loyalti ideals.",0,test
1750,peac cannot possibl dissoci security. cooper among peopl cannot possibl dissoci freedom.,0,test
1751,"brazil enshrin principl peace, cooper preval human right constitution, tradit contribut translat reality.",0,test
1752,"brazil taken part 50 peacekeep oper relat mission has, such, contribut 55,000 member military, polic offic civilians, remark involv suez canal, angola, east timor, haiti, lebanon congo.",0,train
1753,two brazilian femal member militari acknowledg unit nation work sexual violenc part un mission central african republic.,0,train
1754,remain commit complet trade agreement sign mercosur european union well european free trade association. agreement contain import provis reinforc commit environment protection.,0,train
1755,"administration, brazil final put behind protectionist tradit adopt trade liber key tool growth transformation.",0,test
1756,"reaffirm commit reform world trade organization, must provid us relev disciplin line new intern realities.",0,test
1757,"also approach offici process brazil’ access oecd. end, alreadi put place world’ highest standard areas, includ financi regulation, digit secur environment protection.",0,train
1758,"first year office, success carri pension reform and, recently, submit two new reform bill congress, includ tax system administr reform state apparatus.",0,train
1759,"new regulatori framework key sectors, sanit natur gas, also put place. attract investments, provid econom stimulu creat job income.",0,train
1760,"2019, brazil world’ fourth largest destin foreign direct invest and, first half 2020, despit pandemic, seen increas inflow invest compar period last year. clear-cut evid world’ confid government. coordin south atlant partners, brazil work reinvigor south atlant peac cooper zone.",0,train
1761,brazil concern repudi terror part world.,0,train
1762,"latin america, continu strive preserv promot democraci cornerston econom progress desire.",0,train
1763,liberti humankind’ greatest asset.,0,train
1764,call upon entir intern commun protect religi freedom fight christophobia. also wish reaffirm solidar support peopl lebanon wake recent hardship endured.,0,train
1765,believ time right us open new optimist horizon futur middl east. peac agreement israel unit arab emir israel bahrain — three friend brazil govern greatli strengthen relat — excel news.,0,test
1766,"brazil also welcom plan peac prosper launch presid donald trump, featur promis vision resum path toward much- desir solut israeli-palestinian conflict seven decad efforts.",0,train
1767,"brazil’ new polici simultan pursu closer relat israel arab countri much line initiatives, final shine light hope region.",0,train
1768,"brazil christian conserv country, famili foundation.",0,train
1769,may god bless us all.,0,train
1770,"thank much.your excellency, mr. volkan bozkir, congratul turkey’ elect presid histor 75th session unit nation gener assembly. pledg barbados’ full support presidency. confid work gener assembl facilitated, mr. president, steadfast dedic compet leadership.",0,train
1771,"also wish express appreci predecessor, h.e. mr. tijjani muhammad-band nigeria, excel stewardship 74th session, wise guidanc adapt secretariat member state world virtual diplomaci advanc organization’ work midst covid-19 pandemic.",0,train
1772,"critic junctur history, mr. president, unit nation celebr 75th anniversary, world consum mani complex challenges. challeng aris world crisis, world global leadership.",0,train
1773,world appear lost moral compass.,0,train
1774,"globally, wit increas focu system racial injustices, econom social inequities, transnat crime, terrorism, human trafficking, increas human displacement, rise autocracies, violenc women climat crisis, name few.",0,test
1775,"geopolit tension increas countries, display alarm prefer unilater action, domin marginalis others. multilateralism, one philosoph underpin organis found 1945, seriou threat.",0,train
1777,"notwithstanding, barbado continu hold highest regard fundament precept intern commun collect action.",0,train
1778,imbal spoke earlier mr. presid also evid look state treat respect debt management.,0,train
1780,"small island develop states, mani caribbean pacific, labour oner debt burdens. african brother share similar fate. sadly, mani us, remain post-independ legacy.",0,train
1781,"barbado join unit nations, intent craftsmen fate plan trajectori post-coloni development. instead, find ensnar fals per capita-bas construct so-cal “middl incom countries”. assess bear littl resembl everyday existence. assess prohibit access concession loan financ adequ amounts, therebi stymi development.",0,train
1782,time debt forgiveness? time creation innov econom instrument revers widen gap inequality?,0,train
1785,"mr, president, noth starkli exemplifi imbal power like climat change. sever weather event occur across globe make climat mitig adapt effort even urgent. small island develop states, struggl stay afloat liter figuratively. think happen maldives.",0,train
1786,"barbado lost 60 per cent coral reef along rich abund divers speci reef ecosystem support. response, govern launch ambiti programm call roof reef save remain reef hope use modern excit new technolog creation new marin protect area rehabilit damag reefs.",0,train
1788,"barbados, part, postpon climat ambition. deterred! barbado fossil-fuel free 2030.",0,test
1789,"unit nation must take greater step strengthen revit climat agenda. challeng sustain develop creat resili climat chang assum even greater import deliber negotiations. un will, necessity, thread needl care issues, existenti natur countries.",0,train
1790,"take opportun express barbados’ appreci host cop- 26, unit kingdom, doubl contribut green climat fund £1.44 billion. view need adequ climat financ midst covid-19 pandem cannot overstated.",0,train
1791,"mr. president, yet anoth realiti confront us world brink devastation, time hand pervas new enemy, covid-19 pandemic.",0,train
1792,novel coronaviru strip us bare!,0,train
1794,"why, mr. president, barbado unequivoc support secretary- general’ call recent issu polici brief debt covid-19 intern financi institutions, multilater develop bank un provid debt relief. equally, support call eclac use vulner index issu debt address access capit determined.",0,train
1795,also eagerli look forward result upcom high-level event financ sustain develop covid-19 era beyond member state present address area rang illicit financi flow sustain recoveri crush debt burden face small island develop states.,0,train
1796,"resolut view debt relief support measures, addit financing, cannot bound conditionality.",0,train
1797,"barbado also support un’ econom commiss africa call creation special purpos lend vehicle, liquid sustain facility, support african, american caribbean countri advanc sustain develop initi and, immediately, facilit access liquidity, lend investment. term current covid-19 crisis, facil could significantli lower borrow costs, support financi sustainability, help countri access market need bridg financ liabil management.",0,train
1799,"barbado caribbean commun owe great debt gratitud director gener dr. tedro ghebreyesu world health organ support solidar ensur access stock test equip need combat covid-19. barbado also grate assist receiv mani countries, allies, partner agenc around world enabl us manag control spread virus.",0,train
1800,"unit nation must continu play key role global respons pandem help member recoveri assist build back better greener — better economies, better societies, better condit uplift poor marginalized,",0,train
1801,"permit me, mr. president, mention issu key import barbados.",0,train
1802,"wide recognis chronic non-communic diseas global problem constitut largest caus morbid mortal world. therefor call unit inter-ag task forc prevent control ncds, world health organisation, develop health strategi aim treat ncd part comprehens develop plan. take opportun point nexu ncd predispos exacerb factor covid-19. linkag make manag ncd critical.",0,train
1803,"mr. president, barbado call end econom trade embargo impos cuba, sister caribbean nation. deep bond friendship famili link two countries, wish place record barbados’ deep gratitud govern peopl cuba invalu assist render provis much-need healthcar worker help us respond covid-19.",0,train
1804,"respect venezuela, barbado continu call sustainable, legitim peac stabil import region partner. regard, look forward hold inclus elections.",0,train
1805,"pleas advise, mr. president, april 25th 30th 2021, barbado first small island develop state host unctad quadrenni meeting. eagerli await opportun welcom world shores.",0,train
1806,"unctad 15 theme inequ vulner prosper facilit discuss wide rang issues, includ impact covid-19 trade development, also abil attain sdg agenda 2030. also focu futur multilater trade system, measur vulnerability, manag debt, structur transform develop countries.",0,train
1807,"mr. president, let emphas barbado clear convict seventy-f year unit nation remain pre-emin organis respond global challeng us, support intern commun task rebuild societi economi inclus sustain manner.",0,train
1808,"however, organ must becom nimbl focu people, deliveri less bureaucracy. barbado fulli support secretary- gener guterr repeat call new global deal. new global deal must make unit nation relev found members, also countri like barbado join organis well after.",0,train
1809,"mr. president, time leader foster uniti solidarity. time us display global moral leadership promot intern cooper collect action.",0,train
1810,oblig you.mr. presid,0,train
1811,mr. secretari gener,0,train
1812,excel,0,train
1813,"would like present warm greet majesti king, majesti queen peopl bhutan, land gross nation happiness.",0,train
1814,"begin with, express solidar intern commun cope covid-19. offer prayer live lost pandem wish strength love ones.",0,train
1815,"mr. president, would like congratul elect presid 75th session gener assembly. assur delegation’ full support discharg import responsibilities. also commend predecessor’ exemplari leadership steer 74th session gener assembly.",0,train
1816,covid-19 bhutan’ uniqu stori,0,train
1817,"like never before, least lifetime, wit pandem heavi bear live livelihoods.",0,train
1818,"but, comfort unga happen around time. provid us platform share learn extraordinari times. know nation repres alway readi lend ear matter global concern.",0,train
1819,"tackl covid-19 singl global community. came far share knowledge, information, experi evid disease. thank support. bhutan learn lot exercise.",0,train
1820,"today, seek attent share covid-19 stori small himalayan kingdom. stori revolv around compassionate, wise astut 21st centuri king. king view divin rever yet learn everi modern detail.",0,test
1821,majesti king alway symbol held bhutan togeth purpos pursuits. alway royal prioriti protect peopl bhutan times.,0,train
1822,"pandemic, king spearhead battl guard countri virus, make sure bhutanese, home abroad, safe spirit uplifted.",0,test
1823,"then, majesti queen, passion complement majesty’ efforts.",0,train
1824,"direct supervis king, meticul surveil system place. includ close monitor intern entri point time institut 21 day quarantine, mandatori everyon enter bhutan fulli sponsor government. reliabl free test facil also set across country.",0,train
1825,"profession health minist lead team execut everi detail royal guidance. ensur without compromis routin health servic like vaccination, mch ncd packages. share much sens achiev forum. cannot help thank frontlin workers.",0,test
1826,"reciproc royal initiatives, bhutanes gladli embrac new practic wear face masks, maintain physic distance, hand wash avoid unnecessari crowd complement effort government. grate bhutanes peopl support.",0,train
1828,"occasions, majesti express appreci peopl hard work solidarity. turn, peopl heart fill gratitud devot king. uncondit uniti majesty’ leadership distinct win factor fight covid-19.",0,test
1829,covid-19 gnh,0,train
1830,"anyth thrive, need fertil ground. bhutan, display innat qualiti harmony, ambienc gross nation happiness. build around intrins valu interdependence, human compassion.",0,train
1831,"key compon gnh, visionari monarch emphasis protect preserv environment. constitut mandat ensur 60 percent forest cover time maintain ‘inter-gener equity’ natur resources.",0,test
1832,"today, world deal issu climat change, grate wise decis kept bhutan carbon negative.",0,test
1833,"similarly, constitut mandat free healthcar educ bhutanese. monarch alway insist strengthen social sector say invest expenditure.",0,train
1834,"despit resourc constrain country, access sector issu bhutanes people. exist public healthcar system need minimum adjust cope pandemic.",0,train
1835,"person feel pandem brought essenc gnh, seek wellb people, oneself everyon around us. disease, highli contagious, requir us act responsibly, action don’t compromis safeti vulnerable.",0,train
1836,"understand pathophysiolog covid-19, medic person, convinc effect vaccin combin profession design well implement physic distanc  extrem sens call lockdown , easili access reliabl test best approach.",0,test
1837,"lockdown templat elabor three phase add three weeks, follow 10 day gradual unlock phases. bhutan experienc first lockdown last month. break chain transmission, peopl cooper stay home through, allow front-lin job day out.  covid-19 social, econom intervent ",0,train
1838,"even covid-19 declar pandemic, majesti express concern bhutan spare outbreak. remind us strategic, health crisi could easili lead econom problem subsequ social crisis.",0,train
1839,"why, intervent look livelihood peopl , design within magnanim king. convent fiscal monetari measur attend affect entiti individuals. special team form look inform formal sectors.",0,train
1840,"however, majesty’ biggest concern could fall crack within system, happen particularli time crisis. thus, king’ relief fund ensur one left behind.",0,test
1841,"royal intervent goe extent take care interest payment loan citizen year. special packag design elderli peopl co-morbid medic conditions. besid social supports, essenti deliv doorsteps. uniqu featur design particularli protect vulner group.",0,train
1842,"majesti alway command lose even singl person disease. hopefully, interventions, abl live king’ expectations.",0,train
1843,75th anniversari un,0,train
1844,"know un come long way achiev major milestones. un celebr 25th anniversary, theme peace, justic progress. despit challenges, seen much improv areas.",0,train
1845,"twenty-f year later, 50th anniversary, commit theme poverti eradication. pandemic, well track.",0,train
1846,"theme 75th anniversari “multilateralism” cannot relevant. like climat change, covid-19 also know borders, similarli affect develop countri disproportionately.",0,train
1847,"know come next. also know sars- cov-3 hit us. sense, interconnected? second option multilateralism? question must keep ask frequent peac coexist among natur around us best vaccin human thrive planet.",0,train
1848,"small, intric world, fight highli infecti disease, big blunder help develop world access critic resourc includ vaccin actual becom available.",0,train
1849,"emphas global messag one safe us safe. true highli contagi disease, never safe everyon els safe.",0,train
1850,2030 agenda sustain develop goal  sdg ,0,train
1851,"let touch bit sdgs, univers goal sustain future.",0,train
1853,"goal set pandemic. plan commiss close studi impact covid-19 development plans. even otherwise, trend around world back home offer evid enough fall short targets.",0,train
1854,"17 sdg interconnected, singl sector spare consequ pandemic. obviou one goal health, educ economy.",0,test
1855,"individu agenc even govern re-align realiti covid-19, shouldn’t revisit sdg too? feel time field special team work new framework sdgs, encapsul element help us walk path new normal prudence.",0,train
1856,ldc graduat,0,train
1858,"know million push back poverty, lost jobs. would gone back decades. bring development achiev back track easy. develop countries, almost irreversible.",0,train
1859,"therefore, would like request un reset global development path help us regain grip smooth transit ldc category.",0,train
1860,un reform peacekeep,0,train
1861,"mr. president, time relev multilater often questioned, bhutan’ faith organis remain unwav firm. challeng face global commun numer multifacet individu state tackl own. perspective, altern work together.",0,train
1862,"time, un must also evolv match chang realities. particular, exist structur composit un secur council reflect current realiti circumst world.",0,train
1863,"bhutan also long support aspir g4 serv perman member expand secur council, course, africa also appropri represented.",0,train
1864,"peac country, enjoy benefit un membership almost five decades. join fratern troop police-contribut countri year 2014. sinc then, engag peacekeep oper gradual increased. stand readi deploy times.  conclus ",0,train
1865,"excellencies, ladi gentlemen, health educ prioriti government, may remind last year share all, gratifi news make teacher highest paid civil servant country.",0,train
1866,"histor initiatives, govern excit redefin educ system school enrol convent teaching. go engag children learn process meaningful, built around relev skill innovation.",0,train
1867,disappoint opt onlin distant learn due circumstances. rob young mind opportun play eat togeth peer teacher campus.,0,train
1869,covid-19 reveal stark fact invest social sector far lacking. one sure sars-cov-3 might trigger anoth pandemic.,0,train
1870,"therefore, must redesign development path doubl invest social sectors. go forward, relevantli educ healthi global citizen heart new normal.",0,train
1871,"convinc spend health educ invest expenditure, live commit would differ ball game hereafter.",0,train
1874,"medic practitioner, would wish fulfil health system improv much life expect touch 100 year un turn centuri 2045.",0,train
1875,"finally, wish 75th session unga everi success, send prayer good health happi everi live planet.",0,train
1876,"thank tashi deleklmr. president,",0,test
1877,"distinguish ladi gentlemen,",0,train
1878,"honour address 75th unit nation gener assembl first time sinc renew mandat presid republ botswana gener elections, held 23 octob 2019.",0,train
1879,"assembl uniqu mani ways. mark 75th anniversari unit nations, virtual, held backdrop greatest challeng time, covid-19 pandemic.",0,train
1880,"allow therefore, extend heartfelt condol sympathi famili friends, throughout world, affect pandemic. also pay special tribut frontlin battle.",0,test
1881,"confid that, like challeng before, will, togeth put spirit fight emerg wiser, stronger resili prepared deal similar pandemics.",0,train
1882,"join deleg spoken congratul assumpt presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. welcom prioriti presented, pledg delegation’ full support execut mandate.",0,train
1883,"let also take opportun extend profound gratitud predecessor, excel professor tijjani muhammad-bande, stewardship gener assembl 74th session.",0,train
1884,"botswana endors theme gener assembl session: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action.”",0,train
1886,"now, ever before, multilater action need effect respond urgent global public health crisi kind seen sinc spanish flu 1918.",0,train
1887,"agree, collect cooper requir repair nations’ devast economi restor livelihood societies.",0,train
1888,"foremost multilater institution, unit nation notic specialis agenc  world health organis  , better suit mobilis action relat immedi long-term respons covid 19 pandemic.",0,test
1889,"have, without doubt, seen organis move swiftli support nation respons effort vulner part world. notic un “solidar flights” deliv life-sav medic suppli neediest around world.",0,train
1890,"deleg welcom initi urgent respons measur undertaken un system, especi support rendered, un countri teams, global crisis.",0,train
1891,"particularli appreci leadership provid un secretary- gener unpreced time, particularli call global ceasefire, well afford covid-19 vaccin access “everi person, everywhere.”",0,test
1892,"reflect effect leverag multilater intern cooper better tackl challeng expos covid-19, incumb upon us also examin way strengthen un’ respons capacities.",0,train
1893,"so, also seiz opportun re-doubl ambit toward attain 2030 agenda  futur want. galvan momentum acceler sdg implement build secretari general’ wise call “decad action”.",0,train
1894,2030 agenda sustain develop,0,test
1895,"2030 agenda sustain development, sustain develop goal  sdg , constitut firm blueprint continu guid us global nation plans.",0,train
1896,botswana remain commit acceler effort toward attain sdg remain ‘decad action.’,0,train
1897,"realiz ambition, govern resolut transform botswana’ economi one larg reli extract industry, vulner globe shocks, knowledge-bas economy.",0,train
1899,"alluded, botswana, like mani countries, pandem far-reach impact live livelihoods.",0,train
1900,"alreadi vulner health sector, pandem join list challenges, include: child mortal  non communic diseas  hiv aids.",0,train
1901,"respond escal rate non-communic diseases, govern adopt multi-sector strategi prevent control ncd 2018-2023. strategi focus prevent measur enhanc qualiti life affected.",0,train
1902,"longstand battl hiv aid remain key prioriti government. context, happi inform botswana well track achiev joint unit nation programm hiv aid 90-90-90 unaids’ treatment target. far, 86 per cent peopl live hiv test know status. know, 83 per cent treatment 90 per cent viral suppressed.",0,train
1904,poverti erad,0,train
1906,"certainly, turn event demand urgent collect action erad poverti multi-dimension form everywhere, everyon affected, 2030.",0,train
1908,"deleg note unfortun global increas violenc women girl amid current health crisis. countri went lockdown peopl stay home, mani women girls, regrettably, becam easi target human predat subject gender base violenc  gbv . trend goe aspir goal 5: gender equal requir strenuou collect action.",0,train
1909,"gbv scourg alreadi concern botswana, increas alarmingli covid-19 crisis. address problem, govern intensifi implement nation strategi toward end gender base violence.",0,train
1910,botswana’ respons covid-19,0,train
1912,"response, govern avail econom relief packag support economi complement diseas contain measures.",0,train
1913,govern work “econom recoveri transform plan” intend support restor econom activ  facilit econom growth  acceler econom transform  build resili economy.,0,train
1914,"wherea economi disrupted, govern remain strongli commit pre-covid-19 sustain development-ori polici programs. econom recoveri transform plan thu add impetu implement initiatives.",0,train
1915,covid-19 multilater action,0,train
1916,"evid global problem, nation-st capac address covid-19 pandem effects, own. multilater respons without question, imperative. therefor echo call rule base inclus multilater open voic civil society, privat sector, academia key stakehold partners, shape global response.",0,train
1917,"botswana, ideal multilater respons one short long-term perspectives. short-term, need provid immedi relief safeti net vulner countri peoples. long term, post covid 19 recoveri multilater effort need provid comprehens support vulner countri populations.",0,train
1918,"deleg thu welcom idea recoveri focus build back better, faster even greener foster resilience. ever critic countri emerg conflict humanitarian crises, well still live unfortun condit foreign occupation.",0,train
1920,"context, call acceler effort implement vienna programm action, istanbul program action samoa pathway, design amelior challeng face group countries.",0,train
1921,"un’ multilater framework effect deal covid-19 pandem challenges, need unit nation nimble, agil fit purpose. indeed, sinc crisi started, seen secretariat demonstr organis qualiti response.",0,train
1923,climat chang,0,train
1924,"covid-19 devast pandemic, caught world unawar ill-prepared, climat chang phenomenon well awar of, mitig repercussions. long declar climat chang existenti threat, commit restrain rapid devastation. therefor re-doubl effort mitig neg effects.",0,train
1927,human right,0,train
1928,"botswana fulli subscrib three mutual reinforc pillar upon unit nation founded. hold firm promot protect human rights, democracy, rule law critic sustain development, peac security.",0,train
1929,also wish take occas reaffirm botswana’ support human right council extens work adopt outcom advanc global human right agenda.,0,train
1930,intern peac secur,0,train
1931,deleg applaud unit nation’ continu effort maintain global peac secur midst pandemic. welcom secretary- general’ appeal global ceasefir intend effort halt arm conflict allow world focu press bigger battl pandemic.,0,test
1932,also commend covid-19 global humanitarian respons plan design provid relief vulner group particularli conflict affect low incom countries. howev need partnership donor fund effect operationalis import plan.,0,train
1933,"turn peac stabil southern african region, note remain rel stable, emerg threat peac security, due increas act terror insurgency.",0,train
1935,"indisput establish terror know borders. remain seriou threat intern peac security. essentially, botswana remain deepli commit combat terror forms. thu continu take necessari step prevent combat scourge. includ strengthen anti-money launder counter terror financ regime. testimoni firm commit contribut toward bolster integr secur global financi system.",0,train
1937,"conclusion, wish reaffirm botswana’ commit to, belief multilater intern cooper indispens mechan foster peac security, promot human right sustain development.",0,train
1938,beyond shadow doubt unit nation remain relev 75 year ago. view complex multi-facet challeng confront human today.,0,train
1939,"inevitably, lesson covid-19 pandem mani others, becom key determin model real futur want unit nation need recov faster build peaceful, just, prosper world futur generation!",0,train
1940,"thank attention.presid unit nation gener assembly,",0,train
1941,"excel head state government,",0,train
1942,"although virtual event, honour address august assembly, behalf central african republic, occas seventy- fifth session unit nation gener assembly.",0,train
1943,"would like extend you, presid volkan bozkir, warm heartfelt congratul elect presid seventy-fifth session unit nation gener assembly.",0,test
1944,"elect well-deserv honour tribut paid contin and, particular, country, republ turkey.",0,train
1945,"believ perfect knowledg intern landscape, well outstand person attribut asset ensur success work.",0,train
1946,would also like acknowledg excel work result achiev professor tijjani muhammad-band seventy-fourth session. acknowledg effort convey recognit satisfaction.,0,train
1947,"rostrum, behalf peopl govern central african republic, would also like take opportun convey gratitud kind attent country, central african republic, receiv intern community, despit mani commit requests.",0,train
1948,"allow reiter gratitud confid mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, sustain commit global peac development, and, particular, constant multifacet support central african republic.",0,train
1949,"year’ assembl held amid special circumstances, humankind, whole, face regrett covid-19 pandemic, claim sever live throughout world.",0,train
1950,"pay tribut memori across world succumb pandemic, humankind combat daili collectively.",0,train
1951,"sinc start health crisis, central african republic, countri world, spared. assess socioeconom impact covid-19 indic country’ economi expect contract 0.8 per cent 1.2 per cent.",0,train
1952,therefor call entir intern commun make greater invest quest common measur solut erad health crisis.,0,train
1953,"light mani challeng face humankind relat security, environment, climat change, human mobility, human rights, terrorism, denuclearization, dismantl weapon mass destruct covid-19 pandemic, choic year’ theme — “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism” — reaffirm multilater alway remain instrument effect combat certain scourg mean minim certain antagon intern level.",0,train
1954,"occas seventy-fifth anniversary, essenti recal purpos principl govern great organ commit contain charter unit nations, name prevent remov threat peac  develop friendli relat among nation  fight inequ form discrimin  protect human rights.",0,train
1955,present session also opportun reflect common organ abl face new challeng affect world societies.,0,train
1956,"today, ever, must, spite differences, advoc intern cooper dialogue, join effort better futur humankind.",0,test
1957,"unit nation remains, continu be, multilater framework par excellence.",0,train
1958,"human endeavour perfect, therefor must bear mind weak identifi past 75 year find effect last solut them.",0,train
1959,"regard, central african republ wish add voic call state african union secur council reform.",0,train
1960,"matter look beyond narrow self-interest give prioriti common interests, avoid confrontation, favour joint strategi world, face unpreced chang upheavals.",0,train
1961,"also matter african represent organ share organization, particular secur council, central decisionmak body.",0,train
1962,"multilateralism, ensur secur stabl futur humankind, aspir peace, justic sustain develop all.",0,train
1963,"would also like take opportun share develop situat country. thank combin effort intern commun auspic african union, polit agreement peac reconcili central african republ sign central african govern 14 arm group 6 februari 2019.",0,train
1964,"sinc sign agreement, central african govern guarantor facilit agreement spare effort implement respect commit contain therein.",0,test
1965,"addition, govern made great deal progress area secur sector reform, facilit gradual redeploy defenc secur forc continu nation ddrr programme, alreadi launch prepar upcom elect schedul 2020-2021 period.",0,train
1967,"notwithstand consider progress made implement secur sector reform central african republic, mani challeng yet addressed, includ genuin commit arm group ddrr special joint secur unit  sustain support intern commun implement appr-rca  conduct oper mean oper engag  mobil resourc nation level develop partners.",0,train
1968,"order adher constitut deadline, nation elector author working, despit covid-19 pandemic, ensur elect held accord establish timeline.",0,train
1969,"date, censu dismember oper continu outsid countri immedi follow public elector roll — condit convoc elector first round elections.",0,train
1970,"govern work close organiz structur elector assist project  papec  2019-2022, built around key coordin mechanisms.",0,train
1971,"government, support minusca, continu make progress restor state author throughout nation territory, redeploy defenc secur forc state servic restor basic social services.",0,train
1972,central african armi steadili regain oper capac assur determin creat necessari condit reconstruct central african republ order restor confid joie de vivr among central africans.,0,train
1973,"end, reiter appeal central african peopl secur council fulli lift arm embargo, burden limit nation armi role republican army, order ensur true author state guarante integr nation territory.",0,train
1974,"conclud remarks, would like recal countri continu make effort implement nation plan recoveri peacebuild  rcpca , evalu regularli partners.",0,train
1975,"tangibl progress made, much remain done. end, commit preserv consolid gain made, improv weak continu make progress search peac econom recovery.",0,test
1976,"task hand immens and, say goes, “the bird take flight support air”.",0,test
1977,therefor hope intern commun remain mobil spirit intern solidar alongsid govern peopl central african republ order achiev country’ recovery.,0,train
1978,"unjust unlaw blockad go also secur establish polici found respect rule principl intern law unit nation charter, especially, principl respect sovereignti state reject intervent intern affairs.",0,train
1980,"occasion, reiter deep appreci sincer effort high sheikh sabah al-ahmad al-jab al-sabah, amir sisterli state kuwait, commend highli endeavor brotherli friendli countri bring crisi end.",0,train
1981,"intern consensu fair palestinian cause, despit consensus, intern commun stand helpless without take effect step vis-a-vi isra intransig persist occupi palestinian arab lands, besid impos stifl sieg gaza strip, continu polici expand settlements, impos fait accompli polici flagrant violat intern legitimaci resolut two-stat solut agre upon intern community.",0,train
1988,"nine year sinc syrian crisi wit unpreced humanitarian tragedies, whose seriou neg impact year year, still imposs reach end crisi due intransig syrian regim inact intern community, especially, secur council, assum duti maintain intern peac secur protect civilians.",0,train
1989,"syrian regim still obstruct even process draft new constitution, propos russia, which, unfortunately, left intern effort realiz sort peac solution. regim deal effort strategi keep pace intern commun follow ostens particip negoti gain time without intend make change.",0,train
1991,"humanitarian field, continu provid form support assist brotherli syrian peopl area displac refug till end crisis.",0,train
1993,"brotherli sudan, valu sign peac agreement juba, transit govern sudan host arm movements, express appreci state south sudan sponsor sign agreement, look forward rest faction join peac process. stress firm stanc state qatar besid brotherli sudanes peopl success pass transit period achiev aspir stabil development.",0,train
1996,"pain lebanon went aftermath explos port beirut. stood besid lebanes brother without conditions. habit impos polit condit show solidar disasters. end, incumb lebanes themselves, dictation, find agre upon way reform fulfil aspir entir gener state base citizenship rather affiliations. this, incidentally, aspir share younger gener across entir region.",0,train
1998,"context, qatar strengthen strateg partnership relev unit nation agencies. refer open program offic unit nation counter-terror offic doha next may implement behavior insight combat terror violent extremism.",0,train
2000,pleas host doha 23 27 januari 2022 fifth unit nation confer least develop countries. confid confer support march toward achiev develop next decad line 2030 agenda sustain development.,0,train
2001,"conclusion, affirm state qatar’ commit declar adopt gener assembl septemb 21st particip head state government, state qatar assum — partnership kingdom sweden — role facilit intern negoti adoption. continu work unit nation achiev goal address common challeng maintain interest peopl good humanity.",0,train
2002,"thank you, may god’ peace, merci bless upon you.mr. presid gener assembly,",0,train
2003,"celebr 75 year sinc establish unit nation adopt charter codif multilateralism. acknowledg un’ vital contribut develop societies, well galvan role foster dialogue, cooper share responsibility, basi univers valu principl enshrin un charter. principl relev today 75 year ago.",0,train
2006,"excellencies,",0,train
2007,"covid-19 pandem profound impact area lives. un’ comprehens respons crisi highlight interdepend economic, humanitarian, secur human right pillars. nonetheless, reveal imper need deal holist way.",0,train
2010,"romania tradit contribut world peac security. particip un peac oper around world, democrat republ congo south sudan, mali kosovo, continu play role.",0,test
2012,"support region intern effort combat terrorism, accord human right humanitarian law, well forthcom review unit nation global counter-terror strategy.",0,test
2013,"romania remain firmli commit maintain rules-bas intern order consolid global architectur arm control, non-prolifer disarmament, take account secur context. celebr 50th anniversari entri forc npt  treati non-prolifer nuclear weapon  2020, romania encourag parti take forward- look approach, everyth possibl achiev compromis strengthen integr npt pillars.",0,train
2014,"hunger, youth unemploy gender inequ rise, action need order fulli implement 2030 agenda sustain develop goals. line secretari general’ call, respons address challeng global locally. set adequ policies, budgets, institut regulatori frameworks. also need involv listen fellow citizens, order achiev better sustain futur all. romania, dedic strateg document launch 2018 — 2030 review nation strategi — guid action next 12 year order meet 17 sustain develop goals.",0,train
2017,"eu green deal token commit regard exampl good practice, we, european state institutions, cannot succeed ourselves. must part achiev just, clean, secur climate-sound future.",0,test
2018,"romania’ object 2050 creat framework economic, social environment polici interconnect design ensure: sustain development, high live standard qualiti environment.",0,train
2019,"futur want one human right promoted, protect fulfilled. must ensur inclus account har youth civil society’ engagement.",0,train
2020,"leav one behind principl also valid human rights, take account overwhelm major sdg anchor human right instruments.",0,train
2022,"gender equal central sustain develop goals. year mark 25th anniversari beij declar platform action. together, defin comprehens transform global agenda gender equal women’ empowerment. futur gener equal forum achiev tangibl result gender equality. must stand togeth women’ rights! gender equal women’ right essenti recov faster better pandemic.",0,train
2026,"futur want also futur solidarity, line 2030 agenda principl leav one behind. one main lesson learn past month crucial need effect innov multilater cooperation. also learn rules-bas intern order — multilater reli — must upheld strengthened, order effect address challenges.",0,train
2027,"now, ever, acknowledg health repres invest futur key sustain development. intensifi effort achiev sdg contribut larg mitig neg effect covid-19 crisis.",0,train
2028,"romania therefor becom part “the coronaviru global response” pledg initiative. time, re-ori sever project year toward respond health emergencies, particularli eastern neighbourhood sub-saharan africa. romania redirect half budget intern develop cooper respond covid-19. contribut consolid institut capac health systems, ensur food secur sustain water management, well counter fake news covid-19 context.",0,train
2029,"romania includ refuge nation public health coverag ensur access necessari medic facilities. person receiv refuge statu anoth form intern protect grant continu access nation territory. process continu even state emerg caus covid-19 outbreak, person includ prevent programm covid-19.",0,train
2031,"current capac presid commun democracies, romania activ promot role youth democrat processes. bucharest declaration, adopt 20th anniversari commun democraci host countri june year, clearli state",0,train
2032,“democraci best equip mobil ensur element,0,train
2033,"societi work together, adapt new circumstances, maxim inclus",0,train
2034,"joint efforts, includ full meaning particip youth",0,train
2035,decision-making”.,0,train
2036,"following, cod youth forum organ romania juli confirm democraci need work togeth deliv best results, youth involv essenti common futur welfar societies.",0,train
2038,"futur want must meet aspir peace, freedom justice, equal prosperity, good health clean environ — futur human rights, democraci rule law provid us adequ framework achiev aspirations.",0,train
2039,"take opportun mention romania celebr 65 year sinc join un. context, would like reaffirm commit univers valu organ resolv continu contribut achiev nobl objectives.",0,test
2040,congratul import respons assum assur romania’ full support cooper 75th session gener assembly.,0,train
2041,"thank attent !mr. president, mr. secretary-general, colleagues, ladi gentlemen,",0,train
2042,"year, intern commun celebr two, without exaggeration, histor anniversaries: 75th anniversari end second world war establish unit nations.",0,train
2043,"import two forev interlink event cannot overemphasized. 1945, nazism defeated, ideolog aggress hatr crushed, experi spirit alliance, well awar huge price paid peac common victory, help construct post-war world order. built ultim foundat un charter remain main sourc intern law day.",0,train
2044,"convinc anniversari make incumb upon us recal timeless principl inter-st commun enshrin un charter formul found father univers organ clearest unambigu terms. principl includ equal sovereign states, non-interfer domest affairs, right peopl determin future, non-us forc threat force, polit settlement disputes.",0,test
2045,"look back past decades, one say despit difficulti cold war period, major geopolit shift intricaci today’ global politics, un abli fulfil mission protect peace, promot sustain develop peopl contin provid assist mitig local crises.",0,train
2046,"enorm potenti expertis un relev serv solid basi move ahead. all, like intern organ region entity, un grow stiff, evolv accord dynam 21st centuri consist adapt realia modern world inde becom complicated, multipolar multidimensional.",0,train
2047,"current chang certainli effect princip un body, secur council, well debat concern approach reform. logic secur council inclus interest countries, well divers positions, base work principl broadest possibl consensu among state and, time, continu serv cornerston global governance, cannot achiev unless perman member secur council retain veto power.",0,train
2048,"right pertain five nuclear powers, victor second world war, remain indic actual militari polit balanc day. importantly, essenti uniqu instrument help prevent unilater action may result direct militari confront major states, provid opportun seek compromis least avoid solut would complet unaccept other act within framework intern law, rather vague, gray area arbitrari illegitimacy.",0,train
2049,"diplomat practic shows, instrument actual works, unlik infam pre-war leagu nation endless discussions, declar without mechan real action state peopl need right assist protection.",0,train
2050,"forget lesson histori short-sight extrem irresponsible, like politic attempt arbitrarili interpret causes, cours outcom second world war twist decis confer alli nuremberg tribun base specul instead facts.",0,train
2051,"vile offend memori fighter nazism. direct devast blow foundat post-war world order, particularli danger view global stabil face seriou challenges, arm control system break down, region conflict continu unabated, threat pose terrorism, organ crime drug traffick intensifying.",0,train
2053,"expert yet fulli assess scale social econom shock caus pandem long-term consequences. however, alreadi evid take really, realli long time restor global economy. furthermore, even proven anti-crisi measur alway work. need new innov solutions.",0,train
2055,"idea qualit integr growth, “integr integrations”, one behind russia’ initi form greater eurasian partnership involv asian european countri without exception. pure pragmat increasingli relevant.",0,train
2056,"besides, would like draw attent russia’ propos creat so-cal “green corridors” free trade war sanctions, primarili essenti goods, food, medicin person protect equip need fight pandemic.",0,test
2058,"inde acut global social problem, polit mission pave way trade, joint project fair competition, rather tie hand busi discourag busi initiative.",0,train
2061,"regard, matter relat cybersecur use advanc digit technolog also deserv seriou deliber within un. import hear appreci concern peopl protect rights, right privacy, properti security, new era.",0,train
2062,"must learn use new technolog benefit humankind, seek right balanc encourag develop artifici intellig justifi restrict limit it, work togeth toward consensu field regul would avert potenti threat term militari technolog security, well traditions, law, moral human communication.",0,train
2063,"would like point pandemic, doctors, volunt citizen variou countri show us exampl mutual assist support, solidar defi borders. mani countri also help selflessli open-heartedly. however, case show deficit human and, will, kind relat offici interst level.",0,train
2065,"healthcare, like economy, need remove, mani possible, obstacl partner relations. countri activ contribut global region counter-covid-19 efforts, provid assist affect state bilater within multilater formats.",0,test
2066,"so, first take account central coordin role world health organization, part un system. believ essenti qualit strengthen capability. work alreadi begun, russia genuin motiv engag it.",0,test
2068,"would like reiter complet open partner relat will cooperate. context, propos hold onlin high-level confer shortli countri interest cooper develop anti- coronaviru vaccines.",0,train
2069,"readi share experi continu cooper state intern entities, includ suppli russian vaccin prove reliable, safe, effective, countries. russia sure capac global pharmaceut industri need employ provid free access vaccin popul state forese future.",0,test
2070,"danger viru affect anyone. coronaviru struck staff unit nations, headquart region structur like everyon else. russia readi provid un necessari qualifi assist  particular, offer provid vaccine, free charge, voluntari vaccin staff un offices. receiv request un colleagu respect, respond those.",0,train
2072,"special multilater un conventions, treati protocol prove fulli relevant. call state compli good faith, particularli work achiev object pari agreement.",0,train
2073,"dear colleagues! would like underlin again, russia make everi effort contribut peac polit diplomat resolut region crise conflicts, well ensur strateg stability.",0,test
2075,"issu primari import must promptli dealt is, course, extens russia-u strateg arm reduct treaty, expir shortly, i.e. februari 2021. engag negoti us partner matter.",0,train
2076,"also expect mutual restraint would exercis regard deploy new missil systems. would like add earli last year, russia declar moratorium deploy ground-launch medium short-rang missil europ region long unit state america refrain actions. unfortunately, receiv reaction propos either us partner allies.",0,train
2078,"particular, russia put forward initi sign bind agreement lead space power would provid prohibit placement weapon outer space, threat use forc outer space objects.",0,train
2080,"current challeng environment, import countri show polit will, wisdom foresight. perman member un secur council — power that, 75 year now, bear particular respons intern peac security, preserv foundat intern law — take lead here.",0,train
2082,"would like reiter interrelated, interdepend world, amid whirlpool intern developments, need work togeth draw principl norm intern law enshrin un charter. way us carri paramount mission organ provid decent life present futur generations.",0,train
2083,wish peopl planet peac well-being.,0,train
2084,thank you.,0,train
2085,"•	excellency, volkan bozkir, presid gener assembl",0,train
2086,"•	excellency, antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nation",0,train
2087,"•	excellencies, head state govern",0,train
2088,•	distinguish deleg,0,train
2094,"mileston gender, climate, develop demonstr achiev multilater action, also remind us much remain done.",0,train
2095,"commend except work done world health organization, led dr tedro adhanom. continu work reinforc w.h.o. make effective.",0,test
2099,"global movement racial justic equal pass phenomenon. requir action build public trust equal digniti citizens, demonstr treatment histor marginalised, continu suffer mistreat disproportionately.",0,train
2101,"descend look back judg gener respond challenges, especi leaders.",0,train
2102,collect accomplish three gener 75 year build stronger intern order disintegr recrimin resentment? come togeth secur global progress foundat cooper mutual respect?,0,train
2103,choic ours. thank you.th kingdom’ statement un gener assembl 75th session,0,train
2104,"majesties, highnesses, excellencies, mr. presid gener assembly, mr. secretari gener",0,train
2105,"distinguish attendees,",0,train
2106,"may god’ peac upon you,",0,train
2108,"also would like extend thank predecessor dr. tijjani muhammad- bande, presid previou session great effort exerted. also would like note commend distinguish work undertaken secretari gener mr. antonio guterr improv perform un institut manner achiev object meet purpos charter.",0,train
2109,"today, speak birthplac islam  home revelation, qibla muslims. share messag reli teach nobl religion, arab culture, common human values, call coexistence, peace, moderation, solidar among nation peopl world confront extraordinari challeng humanity.",0,train
2111,"kingdom one largest donor field humanitarian development aid. kingdom provid support peopl world irrespect political, ethnic, religi affiliation. past three decades, kingdom provid $86 billion humanitarian aid benefit 81 countries.",0,test
2112,"country, ever sinc foundat organization, forefront among nation work achiev intern peac security. consist work mediat reach peac solut disputes, well seek prevent conflict support security, stability, development, prosperity.",0,train
2115,"region intern spheres, kingdom advoc polici reli respect intern law principles, continu work achiev security, stability, prosper region, support polit solut conflict combat extrem form manifestations.",0,train
2119,"kingdom hesit defend nation security, abandon fratern peopl yemen regain complet sovereignti independ iranian hegemony. kingdom continu provid humanitarian support peopl yemen, continu support effort un secretari general’ special envoy yemen accord gcc initiative, outcom comprehens yemeni nation dialogue, unsc resolut 2216.",0,train
2120,"terror extremist ideolog pose major threat entir world. together, made remark progress past year combat extremist organizations, includ substanti roll back isi stronghold iraq syria effort global coalition. similarly, forc coalit support legitimaci yemen abl deliv import strike al-qaeda isi yemen.",0,train
2122,"kingdom, due posit muslim world, bear special histor respons protect toler islam faith attempt terrorist organ extremist group pervert it. islam equat kill individu kill peopl undoubtedli innoc crime atroc commit name forc terror extremism.",0,train
2124,"peac middl east strateg option. duti spare effort work togeth toward achiev bright futur peace, stability, prosperity, coexist among region’ peopl prevail. kingdom support effort advanc peac process. kingdom introduc peac initi sinc 1981. 2002 arab peac initi provid basi comprehens solut arab-isra conflict ensur fratern palestinian peopl obtain legitim rights, forefront establish independ state east jerusalem capital. support effort current u.s. administr achiev peac middl east bring palestinian isra negoti tabl reach fair comprehens agreement.",0,train
2125,"follow concern develop libya, call libyan brother sit negoti tabl unit preserv territori integr safeti libya, condemn foreign intervent libya. also support peac solut syria maintain territori integr call departur militia mercenari it.",0,train
2127,"mr. president, distinguish attendees,",0,train
2129,may god’ peac upon you.,0,train
2130,"thank mr. president.in name god, merciful,",0,test
2131,"majesti excel head state government,",0,train
2132,"may peace, merci bless god almighti upon you.",0,test
2133,"pleasur address today, year sinc gloriou decemb revolution, young women men sudan paid price preciou blood. revolut repres sincer express peopl aspir freedom, peac justice.",0,train
2134,"great hope work session successful. also pleas extend sincer congratul you, mr. volkan bozkir, elect presid gener assembly, wish success. must also express appreci great effort made predecessor, mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, outgo presid gener assembly, tireless effort seventy-fourth session.",0,train
2135,"deliber current session take place critic time. world face strange, mysteri enemi spread rapidli ferociously, leav devast wake, surpass geograph boundari without distinct rich poor countries. left world choic choos solidar mean response.",0,train
2137,"connection, would like state support appreci world health organ commend role play combat pandem outset. also commend technic support provid affect countries. also wish thank countri organ support us area.",0,train
2141,"import preserv valu multilater intern cooper underpin charter unit nation 2030 agenda sustain development. essenti order reinforc three pillar unit nations: security, develop human rights.",0,train
2142,"moreover, global issu climat change, geopolit tension humanitarian crise variou form mean must reach understand respect valu interest people. call share interest action multilater diplomacy, especi time political, social econom landscap relat among countri impact technolog progress inform acceleration.",0,train
2144,"regard humanitarian situation, express thank appreci unit nation humanitarian agencies, intern organ donor commun support revolut govern effort address issu displac persons, refuge repatri citizen provid food health care.",0,train
2146,"countri work close unamid exit strategi 31 decemb line secur council resolut 2525  2020 . latest step taken transfer task implement phase one nation plan protect civilians, circul offici secur council document sinc 21 may. also submit first progress report implement 15 august. continu implement nation plan order fulli assum task relat protect civilian 31 december, sudan host unit nation integr transit assist mission sudan  unitam .",0,train
2149,"constitut declar given special attent human right issues, whole chapter devot freedom rights. implement declaration, transit govern taken number posit step address distort attach issu throughout period previou totalitarian rule. first among step repeal number law restrict freedom  promot role women societi  protect right  allow freedom opinion, express peac assembl  combat impunity. transit govern also eager strengthen cooper intern community. context, agreement sign open region offic high commission human right septemb 2019. offic oper sudan sinc january.",0,test
2150,"regard effort reintegr sudan intern system, take opportun express high appreci initi germany, particip number countries, establish group friend sudan. success format group regular meet repres momentum toward reintegr sudan intern system isol last 30 years. exemplifi success sudan partnership confer berlin 25 june, particip 50 countri region intern organizations.",0,train
2152,"also stress sudan, presid intergovernment author development, strive achiev goal consist strateg goal igad. decis sixteenth igad ordinari summit novemb 2019 agre sudan’ presid organ affirm sudan’ strong return region. sudan laid vision presid relat peace, security, region integration, empow women youth revit organization. igad held number summits, includ one support peac process sisterli republ south sudan anoth address coronaviru pandemic.",0,train
2155,"conclusion, want confirm determin complet construct projects, reform intern institut strengthen extern relat sudan becom activ member region. want particip intern commun creat futur want occupi right place order contribut strengthen role unit nations. day ago, celebr seventy-fifth anniversary. want organ need view achiev cooperation, plural collect work success approach meet challeng threaten peopl world.mr. presid gener assembly,",0,test
2156,"ladi gentlemen, head state govern head delegation,",0,test
2157,"start remarks, behalf excel mr. macki sall, presid senegales republ people, would like extend warm congratul republ turkey, decis elect ambassador volkan bozkir lead work 75th session gener assembl unit nations.",0,test
2158,senegal’ support cooper wish everi success august duti servic member states.,0,train
2159,"also thank predecessor, professor tijjani muhammad-bande, outstand work difficult context, mark unpreced health crisi covid-19.",0,train
2160,"secretary-general, mr. antonio guterres, reiter senegal’ support continu effort reform unit nation system, bedrock inclus multilateralism.",0,test
2161,"although plan mark seventy-fifth anniversari un grandios fashion, find virtual environment, physic separ one anoth pandemic.",0,train
2162,"paraphras presid macki sail, infinitesim small got better us. unpreced even organization’ 75-year existence!",0,train
2163,"accordingly, theme chosen, entitl “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”, could timely, call us take clearer look share challenges.",0,train
2164,"even progress report, commemor anniversari provid meaning opportun critic examin organization’ 75-year history, includ achievements, well limitations, hinder achiev current objectives.",0,train
2166,"secondly, given uncertainti situation, discuss need unit nations, whose mission universal, remain focus major prioriti three main pillar peac security, sustain develop — particular climat emerg — promot protect human rights.",0,train
2167,"lastly, go share lesson learn senegal’ experi develop country, particularli context pandem respons strategy.",0,train
2169,"time, pay tribut memori hundr thousand covid-19 victim wish million patient sick diseas speedi recovery.",0,train
2170,"let us commend actor taken collect threat, particular health-car personnel, express admir firm support.",0,test
2171,"intern organizations, particular world health organization, respons coordin global respons threat, reiter senegal’ support.",0,test
2172,"accordingly, deleg call effect implement resolut adopt consensu seventy-third world health assembly, particularli view ensur rapid, affordable, safe qualiti access essenti health-car servic technologies, diagnost tests, medicin vaccines.",0,test
2173,firmli believ potenti vaccin treatment develop fight covid-19 consid global public good made avail countries.,0,train
2176,"although initi sustain growth dynamics, africa, like rest world, suffer full impact far-reach crisis.",0,train
2178,"excel mr. macki sail call cancel public debt restructur privat debt, well develop countri honour commit offici develop assistance.",0,train
2179,"would like take opportun commend effort made member g-20, world bank intern monetari fund support debt servic suspens initiative.",0,train
2180,"africa truli requir debt moratorium, rather debt cancel order foster econom social resilience, well build effect health-car systems.",0,train
2182,"75-year existence, unit nation — quintessenti symbol multilater — made great stride promot intern peac security, mutual understand among peoples, sustain develop respect human dignity.",0,train
2183,"evidenc mani peac oper throughout world, decolon implement 2030 agenda, well support assist un provid peopl need world, regardless origin background.",0,train
2184,"undeniably, organ contribut greatli realiz share goal bring world free scourg war, poverti exclusion.",0,train
2185,"stand need today reinvigor multilater reform effect univers organization, collect answer existenti questions, one left behind.",0,train
2186,"together, face multipl challeng terrorism, violent extremism, arm conflict, financ development, illicit financi flows, migration, poverty, exclusion, public health climat change.",0,train
2187,"regard, legitim ask africa remain contin perman seat secur council, devot larg part agenda continent?",0,train
2188,"host ministeri meet african union committe ten head state government, entrust repres africa’ voic reform secur council, seneg reaffirm commit issu which, moral imperative, way reviv found spirit charter ideals.",0,train
2191,"state affairs, however, obscur africa, entrepreneurial, innovates, invents, succe admir deal covid-19 pandem face alarmist forecasts.",0,train
2193,presid macki sail recent recal,0,train
2194,"“for world economi run steam, build africa repres",0,train
2195,sourc opportun investments”.,0,test
2196,"therefore, decad action deliv sustain develop goals, launched, fresh opportun us work toward revit post-covid-19 recoveri full implement 2030 agenda.",0,train
2197,"furthermore, implement declar commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nations, seneg fulli endorses, must renew commit agenda un reform order restor multilater right place unit nation centre.",0,train
2200,"example, like sever countri sahel region, seneg recent record equival month’ amount rain one day, upend live thousand people.",0,train
2201,"want avoid apocalyps futur generations, altern implement unit nation framework convent climat chang pari agreement. particular, develop countri must honour financi commitments, includ green climat fund.",0,train
2202,"equal concern challeng concern loss biodiversity. excel mr. macki sail noted,",0,train
2203,“the loss biodivers global emerg concern us,0,train
2204, part ecosystem ”.,0,train
2206,"support financ partner donors, programm made possibl meet emerg materi health-car needs, assist household diaspora population, support privat sector, includ tax incentives, ensur adequ suppli fuel.",0,train
2209,"result efforts, seneg rank second global respons index regard respons pandemic.",0,train
2210,"regard, 2019-2023 adjust acceler prioriti action plan plan emerg seneg plan revis upward $4,098 $14,712 billion, contribut sum $26 billion total investments.",0,train
2211,"crucial issu climat chang priorit within framework, particularli implement green emerg seneg plan.",0,train
2212,"regard, invest programm dedic 50 billion cfa francs, approxim $90 million, sustain reforest nation territory, establish nation forest research institut senegales forest protect agenc order strengthen current polici area.",0,train
2213,"concern foreign policy, remain faith principl leadership head state, seneg continu advoc good neighbourliness, region integration, promot peac human rights, intern cooper solidarity.",0,train
2214,"accordingly, renew country’ continu commit definit return peac stabil mali.",0,test
2215,"entir motiv behind effort excel presid macki sail, particularli within framework ecowas, view support malian stakehold come togeth best interest mali benefit malian entir subregion.",0,train
2216,"seneg pursu effort within minusma — valuabl contribut illustr country’ commit peacekeeping, view promot peace, secur stabil throughout world.",0,train
2218,"regard, urg intern commun step effort realiz right palestinian peopl independ viabl state, east jerusalem capital, coexist peac secur state israel, live within secur intern recogn borders.",0,train
2219,"would remiss fail mention futur want continu depend lesson learned, particularli relat health crisis. despit resilience, pandem call question busi usual, forc us break past practices.",0,test
2220,"boat face vulnerabilities, seneg convinc altern work collect solidarity.",0,train
2222,"underpin new world order advoc presid macki sail. order base justice, rule law fair equit govern full cooperation, solidar mutual respect — say inclus multilateralism, quintessential^ embodi reform effect unit nations.",0,test
2223,"thank kind attention.mr president, excellencies, ladi gentlemen.",0,train
2225,"would like congratul excel volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session gener assembly. would also thank excel tijjani muhammad-bande, presid 74th session, steer un challeng period.",0,train
2232,import multilater,0,train
2233,"pandem chang singapore’ fundament belief necess multilateralism. small countri make half membership un. essenti system small sovereign state equal voic disput settl peacefully, accord intern law agre rules. singapor work cross-region group countri establish forum small state back 1992. forum small state alway champion un rules-bas multilater system. count forum small state continu speak stronger un greater multilateralism.",0,train
2235,"current system perfect. much done strengthen reform rules-bas multilater system. need fit purpose, abl adapt chang realiti today.",0,train
2236,overcom recov covid-19,0,train
2241,"ensur open trade system key rebuild efforts. countri complet self-sufficient. interest countri uphold strengthen suppli chain connectivity. fact, seek market diversifi sourc suppli build resilience. singapor issu joint ministeri statement affirm suppli chain connect australia, canada, chile, new zealand, brunei myanmar, un, spearhead joint statement open markets, flow essenti good suppli chain connect which, glad report, 175 co-sponsors.",0,train
2245,"nation level, need ensur digit inclusion, especi commun older persons, peopl disabl financi disadvantaged. respons help peopl upskil re-skil equip job future. also help busi leverag digit tool grow, becom efficient, competit find new customers.",0,test
2246,"intern level, governments, businesses, individu need abl transact transfer data secur across borders. thu critic collect develop trusted, open, inclus cyberspac underpin intern law norm respons state behaviour. singapor strongli support un secretary-general’ roadmap digit cooperation. also continu work un group government expert advanc respons state behaviour cyberspac context intern secur open-end work group develop field ict context intern security, oewg, short.",0,train
2248,"climat chang present clear present danger singapor indeed, small island nations. although impact global emiss small, especi vulnerable, singapor take climat action oblig seriously. submit enhanc 2030 nation determin contribut pari agreement long-term low-emiss develop strategi 2050 beyond un framework convent climat chang march 2020, even midst tackl current pandemic.",0,train
2249,post-covid multilater system,0,train
2250,"countri cannot hope go back way thing covid 19 came upon us, neither multilater system. must adapt must reinforc intern institut remain open, inclusive, transparent, fit purpose.",0,train
2251,"role un, particular, crucial. indispens univers platform cooperation, base principl equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit intern law. un must adapt reform order respond effect contemporari futur challeng remain relev next 75 years.",0,train
2255,"singapor commit work other keep wto relev well-functioning. instance, work 22 like-mind countri establish multi-parti interim appeal arbitr arrang keep wto’ arbitr mechan functioning.",0,train
2256,"expect world intellectu properti organisation’ role grow world move progress online, cyberspace, new valu created.",0,train
2258,current crisi brought sharp relief common humanity. must leav anyon behind alone.,0,train
2259,"thank much.mr. president,",0,train
2261,"let also use occas commend predecessor, excel tijjani muhammad-bande, excel leadership gener assembl past session. highli commend effort ensur work assembl progress spite restrict face unit nation secretariat member state missions. wish everi success futur endeavors.",0,test
2263,"never time collect action un member state greatli need right now, time world face global, deadli pandem covid-19.",0,train
2266,pleas inform assembl solomon island remain one 12 covid-19 free countri without report case. nine pacif small island develop state share covid-19 free status.,0,train
2267,"however, remain complacent. govern respond pandem undertak follow steps. firstly, covid-19 oversight committe compris relev govern agenc quickli establish coordin government’ respons pandemic. furthermore, resourc swiftli mobil address gap within healthcar system secur entri point borders. econom front govern creat stimulu packag cushion neg impact viru continu impos fragil economy.",0,train
2270,"far 11 repatri flight undertaken. 1000 peopl enter borders, 80 per cent repatri nation 20 per cent foreign nationals. schedul flight repatri nation abroad.",0,train
2272,"take time thank host countri transit countri goodwil understand accommod citizen wait repatriated. also wish express heartfelt thank develop partner including, australia, new zealand, japan, peopl republ china, unit arab emirates, asian develop bank, world bank, unit nation agenc particular, world health organization, region institut kind assist generosity, financi support time donat medic equip health sector. unwav support deepli appreci continu need continu effort combat spread virus.",0,train
2278,"larg ocean state area 1.5 million squar kilometres, conserv preserv ocean resourc remain prioriti solomon islands. live peopl economi countri remain deepli connect ocean. solomon island tuna industri gener around $60 million revenu annual basi economi provid employ 2,000 solomon islanders. sadly, illegal, unreport unregul fish within maritim jurisdict remain threat tuna resources. almost $150 million worth direct econom valu small island develop state includ solomon island lost result iuu pacific. call distant water fish nation reduc incid iuu waters.",0,train
2279,"matter pertain un convent law sea, govern remain commit negoti legal bind instrument conserv sustain use marin biolog divers area beyond nation jurisdiction. govern look forward agreement fair, comprehens provid capac build small island develop state solomon island fulli implement it. note challeng covid-19 pose abil state conclud negoti 2020, however, must lose momentum. must continu strive complet negoti earliest possibl date.",0,train
2280,"ensur sovereignti maritim zone remain import government. activ work toward complet delimit maritim zone one remain maritim boundari left conclude. regard, govern welcom work undertaken intern law commiss question sea level rise sovereignty. government’ posit nation maritim zone deposit unit nations, subject chang despit sea level rise. solomon island ocean state, country’ sovereign territori chang due effect climat chang sea level rise.",0,test
2281,"time world face unpreced challeng exacerb covid 19, import ever, world remain unit effort bring peac uniti among peopl regardless race, gender religion. post conflict countri peopl keep strive maintain uniti within diversity. reason govern proud contribut 12 polic offic unit nation african mission darfur, sudan. stand readi deploy offic un peacekeep duti un peacekeep mission especi critic times.",0,train
2283,"welcom committe develop policy’ intent factor, impact covid-19 sector next triennial review 2021. encourag work close us ensur next report paint true pictur solomon island develop path continu navig transit roadmap uncertain challeng times.",0,train
2286,"see increas number undernourish children nourish adults. addit this, report also highlight vulner economi extern shock natur disasters. coupl impact covid 19 continu affect solomon island forese future.",0,train
2287,"solomon island believ import agenda 2030, istanbul program action samoa pathway chart cours sustain development. factor nation develop strategi path forward sustain futur people. urg develop partner remain commit work us achiev aim sustain development.",0,train
2288,"solomon island recogn contribut frontlin health worker make fight covid-19. regard, allow offer deep thank cuba train medic students. eighti solomon island medic doctor graduat cuban medic school eight graduat year. note concern 59-year-old econom embargo impos cuba remain place reiter call lift embargo within spirit purpos unit nation charter.",0,train
2289,"finally, mr. president,",0,train
2292,"thank mr. president.mr. president,",0,train
2293,"excellencies, head state government,",0,train
2294,distinguish ladi gentlemen,0,train
2295,"congratul you, mr. president, assumpt respons steer work seventy-fifth session gener assembl assur sierra leone’ full support tenure.",0,train
2296,"commend excellency, mr. tijjani muhammad-band nigeria, effect effici leadership 74th unga session — period challenging.",0,train
2297,"commend secretary-gener antonio guterr astut leadership profound commit work organization. particular, acknowledge, appreciation, call global ceasefir current pandemic, set covid-19 respons fund, advanc urgent need address climat change, implement sustain develop goals.",0,train
2300,"sierra leone, therefore, support call global solidar cooper prevention, curtailment, treatment covid-19 pandemic, well associ recoveri programmes.",0,train
2301,"effect, would like encourag secretari gener work assembl stakehold expedit implement covid- 19-relat resolutions. would also like encourag member state august assembl share relev information, scientif knowledge, best practic disease, well enhanc equit fair access medicines, vaccin medic equip nations.",0,train
2302,"given global health pandemic, theme session, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action” therefor appropriate, relevant, timely.",0,train
2304,"time isolationist sentiments, geopolit tensions, econom uncertainti escalating, multilater rules-bas system sever tested. un charter remain foundat multilater system, intern cooperation, global peac security. provid framework maintain peac security, uphold human right dignity, promot sustain develop intern cooper tackl longstand emerg challenges.",0,train
2305,"view this, sierra leon reaffirm firm commit multilater embodi charter unit nations.",0,train
2306,"are, regard, commit promot intern cooper address present emerg challeng confront world, includ collect engag prevent conflict well advanc durabl peac settlement conflict disputes.",0,train
2307,"must continu build gain made prevent diplomaci efforts, continu heighten collaboration, utilis experi help unit nation achiev rel intern peac secur last 75 years.",0,train
2310,"collect multilater aspir hope safer secur world embodi adopt 2030 agenda 17 sustain develop goal  sdg , addi ababa action agenda, pari climat chang agreement.",0,train
2311,"covid-19 pandem make time attain object 2030 agenda unlikely, imper respond cooper pandem way put nation back track acceler progress toward achiev sdg. reduc econom activity, revenu losses, budget constraint huge cost manag pandem advers affect effort achiev sustain development, strengthen resilience, walk fragility.",0,train
2312,"implement sierra leone’ medium-term nation develop plan  2019-2023 , align sdg au’ agenda 2063, face challeng gener requir domest revenu fund project sundri capac manag constraints. must also strengthen public health institutions, rebuild, build back better.",0,train
2313,"regard, sierra leon fulli support current effort organ intern financi institutions, continu call emerg debt relief standstil mechan intern financi institutions.",0,train
2315,"beyond short-term, quick-fix-and-exit-strategi characteris gener global pandem response, africa need global commit debt cancel least develop countri work hard address longterm structur problem economies.",0,train
2316,"sierra leone, believ imposs make necessari progress global agenda education, health, gender equality, climat chang reduc inequality,violence, injustice, corruption. medium- term nationaldevelop plan  2019-2023  prioritis human developmentcapital. therefor work implement critic driver sustain development.",0,train
2318,"sinc launch country’ free qualiti educ flagship,w increas alloc 21 per cent budget, increas enrol educ institut nationwid spite of,and prioritis innov scienc aspect govern nation develop establish director science, technolog innov work close ministri technic higher education.",0,test
2322,"support peacebuild commission, made great progress foster sustain peac sierra leon years. although sierra leon withdraw formal agenda, continu engag commiss need arises.",0,test
2323,"world summit held 2005, made commit earli reform secur council order make “more broadli representative, effici transpar thu enhanc effect legitimaci implement decisions”.",0,train
2324,"coordin african union committe ten reform unit nations, underscor peopl africa convinc ever present geopolit realiti current global health pandem compel comprehens reform secur council make way represent africa perman categori address under-represent non-perman categori council.",0,train
2328,"thank you!i bid greet peopl world express solidar regard time go through, moment histor scale challeng ever experienced.",0,train
2330,"turn point humankind significantli heighten responsibility. fate gener depend action take fail take day come. gener assembl 75 year found unit nations, one humankind’ great ideas.",0,train
2331,"thank listen me, could someth els time, commod becom increasingli preciou scarce. especi thank salvadoran outsid insid countri allow work them. and, all, thank god, happen him.",0,test
2333,"vast major world’ population, exist. peopl watch speeches, even recal gener assembl exists. depend age, may unawar ever existed. order test theory, past sever days, ask peopl everi walk life age question gener assembly. even know assembl session, minor people, know, even know theme go speak. believ result experiment, ask first person see watch speech.",0,train
2334,"say propon self-criticism, given fact that, presid el salvador, member gener assembl and, human being, firm believ potenti tool good.",0,train
2335,"however, warn gener assembl last year, world alreadi chang continu chang increasingli rapidly, whoever fail chang run risk disappearing. today’ world differ world year ago. moment record history, societi chang continu chang extent short time.",0,train
2336,"gener assembl done? mere send video-record statements, forc make chang respons pandem instead courag chang build futur want. chang alon insufficient, world continu change, whether not. some, word may sound harsh, high regard found principl unit nation assembl compel speak them.",0,train
2337,"want chang survives. want chang humankind use great tool. want chang us togeth hand chang world share destiny, gener assembly, risk becom irrelevant.",0,train
2338,"year come end, continu reel effect one greatest crise modern histori humankind. unit nation done? let us perform experi again: ask first person see unit nation done pandemic. connect would like thank countri organ help continu help us surviv crisis.",0,train
2342,"help, however, mostli bilater work, necessarili owe unit nation system. despit fact establish mainli deal event current existenti threat face humankind, lack leadership part organ unit world counter viru together.",0,train
2343,"cri could counterproductive. must see opportun wake-up call prepar similar, even powerful, blow — next global threat — and, important, take advantag uniqu histor opportun build creat future.",0,train
2344,"child — like believ long ago — thought futur mind carri away possibl — fli car human devot live art human robot would work want do. world imagin speak multifac way futur humankind’ collect conscious multicultur world, free war, channel effort explor star place within humankind’ reach.",0,test
2345,"young peopl imagin now, look toward future? answer natur disasters, pandemics, wars, apocalypt post-apocalypt scenario dystopian societies. believ me, tri experi again, ask first young person see: imagin planet earth future?",0,train
2346,"certain aspect futur mani us imagin children today realities. technolog reach level even dare futurologist could imagined. almost everyon listen supercomput pocket. moreover, mother may listen supercomputer.",0,train
2347,"smartphon today million time comput power supercomput took us moon. latest iphon far power supercomput 1970s, 1980 even 1990s. also billion supercomput scatter throughout globe, connect one anoth largest network human history.",0,train
2348,"year ago, hall, mention potenti network, and, sinc then, becom much larger powerful. year, even so. manag it? believ yet understand potenti potenti tool avail individu collect us it.",0,train
2350,"someth wrong world million peopl supercomput pocket problem remain — histor problem like hunger, homelessness, death curabl diseases, rel easi humankind resolve. whole world decid resolv everi one them, would solv matter month even sooner.",0,train
2351,"margin test abil chang world recent months. yet result incred intern local levels. see race vaccin collabor involv treatment viru global level. regard, warmli thank member italian medic community, particular, whose research led initi treatment save thousand live el salvador, mention entir world, great person risk, time knew littl virus. thank behalf peopl el salvador. applaus world would fall short justli sing praise.",0,train
2352,"local level, el salvador seen matter month put extrem precari human health-car system track becom first-world system. although progress remain made, realiz that, try, achiev much faster ever imagined. everi day fail work togeth order solv world humankind’ problem repres live lost forever. lose opportun forever.",0,train
2354,"pray god trend continu soon abl transform el salvador one safest place contin — countri that, two year ago, mani consid insecur countri world. much remain done. sever issu resolve, use tool humankind created, acceler process develop countri go through.",0,train
2355,"it. begin educ build new country. idea begin build model societi world, alreadi embodi sever societi particularities, exampl achiev part humankind. advoc vision accomplish interconnect society, therefor call thinker doer world want particip develop consolid countri work us build miracl sovereign state el salvador.",0,train
2356,"el salvador countri polit exist take leap urgent need gener assembly. el salvador, member enjoy avail govern desire, idea mission forward-look peopl strive creat future, while, time, contribut humankind — well excel weather wave everi month year.",0,train
2357,"countri process built, extrem exciting, would like speed process. entreat pioneer world help us public privat sphere almost complet connect throughout world key stroke reach everywher answer me, collabor build. tool order move humankind least littl bit right direction.",0,test
2358,"count creativ human imagination, differenti continu differenti us species. human speci live thousand year longer alway someth invent. possibl —humankind’ — futur almost limitless. take control destiny. humankind must alway seek path, purpos certain pioneer ensur conscious courag so. unit succeed achiev goal, may even live see architect one golden age humankind’ history.",0,train
2359,may god enlighten us allow us rebuild futur togeth brothers.,0,test
2360,"thank much.mr. president, mr. secretary-general, excellencies,",0,train
2361,"behalf govern republ san marino, would like congratul h.e. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session un gener assembl wish fruit work.",0,train
2362,"republ san marino support prioriti programm mention inaugur address ensur you, mr. president, full cooper work gener assembly. would like express country’ gratitud outgo president, h.e. tijjani muhammad-bande, import work carri 74th session. would also like extend special thank secretary-general, h.e. antonio guterres, energi determin lead unit nation difficult challeng time.",0,test
2365,"unfortunately, alone.",0,train
2368,"san marino co-sponsor ga resolut global solidar fight covid-19, unit nation gener assembly, univers bodi nations, sent strong messag unity, solidar intern cooperation. also support co-sponsorship resolut name intern cooper ensur global access medicines, vaccin medic equip face covid-19, highlight import intern cooper underscor equit access health product global priority. last month also join sever collect declarations. respons un secretary-general’ call countri priorit children’ education, food, health safeti amid covid-19 pandemic, co-sign joint declar protect children, state vital work togeth prevent mitig risk children face. need ensur children access inclus qualiti education, nutrit health care, well strengthen social protect systems. must prevent combat form violence, includ domest violence, abus sexual exploit children onlin offline, cyberbullying, bridg digit divide. part group friend children arm conflict, san marino welcom posit result common caus end prevent grave violat children arm conflict. regard, would like thank ms. virginia gamba staff, who, great dedication, final terrif number action plan commit also last year. despit success results, recogn great concern remain.",0,train
2370,"san marino join collect declar regard impact covid 19 older persons. believ import promot respect digniti right older peopl mitig neg impact covid-19 pandem health, lives, right wellbeing. moreover, recogn import contribut older person make societies, call particip respons pandemic. countri also co-sponsor joint declar disability-inclus respons covid-19 — toward better futur all. pandemic, person disabl experienc greater attitudinal, environment institut barrier discrimination, exclus access health-car servic information, well face seriou disrupt employment, education, access social protect support services. global respons recoveri disability- inclusive, protect right need person disabl place center efforts, envisag convent right person disabl 2030 agenda sustain development.",0,train
2371,"regard, i’m pleas say offic high commission human right includ covid-19 guidanc triag bioethic committe republ san marino among so-cal “promis practices”.",0,train
2378,"context, need acceler pace scale actions, want achiev 2030 agenda sustain development. san marino strongli support decad action launch secretari gener begin year. believ that, crisi endang progress toward sdgs, also offer uniqu opportun pursu transform recoveri covid-19, lead us build inclus societi base sustain develop one left behind. respons pandem must base new social contract respect right freedom provid equal opportun all. recent develop global polit landscap creat obstacl develop multilater put risk. challeng pose today protection isolation must counter intern cooper rule intern law, guid member state decades. essenti preserv valu multilater intern cooperation, underpin unit nation charter agenda 2030 sustain develop order promot support peac security, develop human rights. san marino among strongest advoc rules-bas multilateralism.",0,train
2379,"conclusion, mr. president,",0,train
2380,"today ever, believ fundament reaffirm commit valu principl charter unit nations, sign san francisco 75 year ago.",0,train
2382,"thank you.honour presid assembly, excellencies, distinguish guests, ladi gentleman,",0,train
2383,"great honour privileg address occas 75th anniversari unit nations. special 75th anniversari multilater global union peace, progress prosperity, fundament recommit un charter broad-bas consensu effect cooper common sustain intern development. consensus, cooper target common action never import time, world challeng politically, social econom covid-19 health pandemic.",0,train
2388,"given grave health challeng pose world, particular vulner nation like somalia, feel confid greater public health collaboration, inform share equit distribut potenti covid-19 health treatment current development, perman revers deadli impact viru everi human planet. way secur common futur and, therefore, must we, commun nations, reaffirm collect commit multilater confront covid-19 effect coordin multilater action.",0,train
2389,"excellencies, distinguish guests, ladi gentleman,",0,train
2391,"government’ econom polici respons covid-19 has, again, put peopl first tax relief key stapl food items. now, hope worst behind us, cautious start open economi ensur normal life resum people. however, also understand huge challeng build back better, stronger equit covid-19 impact somalia.",0,test
2394,"somalia work through, with, un creat better futur somalia world. take lead deliv develop peopl work valuabl intern partner ensur rebuild democratic, inclus econom prosper somalia. despit challeng covid-19, still work hard undertak inclus nation elect somali peopl determin future. firmli commit promot instil strong tradit democraci account govern serv somali peopl first foremost.",0,test
2396,"look forward, fundament fulli realiz sustain develop goal everi citizen world. cannot afford leav anyon behind. mean unit nation also improv further, innov faster deliv better fragil nation vulner communities. un support nation person develop assist strengthen nation institut frameworks, systemat knowledg transfer invest human capital. real long-term invest actual contribut poverti allevi creation opportun all.",0,train
2398,75th un anniversari 75th anniversari sign un charter import jubile entir mankind.,0,train
2399,republ serbia strongli support multilater principl un charter.,0,train
2400,"sovereign equal countries, denial use force, non-interfer intern matter countries, respect sovereignti territori integrity, peac resolut conflict respect differ principl whose valid never must never questioned.",0,train
2401,big chang intern scene brought 21st centuri make need strict observ un charter well-known basic principl stronger.,0,train
2402,"year big jubilees, mark time 75th anniversari end second world war. repres countri peopl suffer lot mani victim fight nazism fascism, want convey common duti keep memori learn devast conflict modern history, well jointli confront attempt relativ feroci crime second world war. help lesson learn bitter past build new, brighter vision future.",0,test
2403,"republ serbia among big countries, neither territori population.",0,test
2404,"unit nation gener assembl place utmost significance, place small one well right opportun make points, defend arguments.",0,train
2405,"honor address today behalf republ serbia, countri firmli commit polici peac prosper entir mankind.",0,train
2406,"debat today virtual format speak situat today’ world confirm must anyth preserv strengthen unit nation gener assembly, import forum opinion member state import topic global import heard.",0,train
2411,"unit nation need, today future, must adapt newli occur circumst readi joint respons modern age challenges.",0,train
2413,"precis regard unit nation must key role need work continu adapting, strengthen effici unit nation system, best way toward full achiev idea multilateralism.",0,test
2414,newli occur realiti world anoth proof modern challeng know border countries.,0,train
2415,"serbia also face problem fight diseas caus tecton chang worldwid receiv assist friendli countri need most, take opportun thank again.",0,train
2416,"say mani thank european partners, chines friends, russian friend well.",0,train
2417,"likewise, show solidar provid assist countri keep help need difficult times.",0,train
2418,avail opportun extend big gratitud help support provid unit nation world health organ govern republ serbia fight pandemic.,0,train
2419,"hand, besid alreadi alloc financi support strengthen respons healthcar system covid-19, keep support world health organization, well coalit epidem prepared innov  cepi  lead stakehold field immunization.",0,train
2422,"rich country, say also poor country, hope end year we’ll biggest growth rate entir europe. far, first six months, becam first countri — least countri biggest growth rate, hope abl continu manner.",0,train
2423,"dear friends,",0,train
2424,"full membership european union foreign polici prioriti republ serbia. however, european path exclud commit develop cooper deepen relat countri regions. cherish partnership relat western countries, includ intens cooper usa, time proud except relat russian feder people’ republ china. and, see, don’t hide that, proud friendships. cooper friendli african, asia-pacif latin american countri also focu foreign polici activities.",0,train
2425,"additionally, improv region cooper basic start point foreign polici believ relat neighbor act respons reliabl partner. commit preserv region stabil intensifi cooper areas, contribut reconcili process, closer connect develop benefit citizen entir region.",0,train
2427,"context, serbia strive put special emphasi develop econom cooperation, believ approach may contribut rais mutual trust, confidence, therebi easier resolv open issues.",0,train
2428,"guid precis need promot econom cooper creat favor invest climat western balkan region, fall 2019, togeth prime minster north macedonia albania, zoran zaev edi rama, inaugur initi direct toward enabl freedom movement people, goods, servic capital, much closer cooper three countries.",0,test
2429,"want underlin initi open stakehold western balkan herebi invit join, essenc fulli inclus everybodi region.",0,train
2430,"believ european perspect region remain import incent necessari reform process promot cooperation. believ without full integr western balkan eu, common econom polit space european contin complet convinc enlarg polici interest citizen western balkans, also interest european union.",0,train
2433,"familiar problem regard preserv territori integr serbia, i.e. effort resolv — despit obstacles, issu autonom provinc kosovo metohija. precis polit serbia preserv peac stability, cooper econom progress i’v mention earlier, suffici incent approach resolv long last problem, best interest serb albanians.",0,train
2434,"path, face numer pressur serbia crossroad differ polit interest collide. believ possibl reach solut long difficult dialogue, rest assur serbia never agre humiliations. accept anyth compromis us. and, compromise, side must equal either satisfi dissatisfied.",0,train
2435,"recent renew belgrade-pristina dialogu eu auspices, almost two year deadlock, mean first step path.",0,test
2436,"additionally, big step forward find mutual accept solut issu kosovo metohija recent sign agreement econom normal washington, d.c., involv set econom infrastructur projects, enabl better life citizen part countri region.",0,test
2438,"dialogu belgrad provision institut self-govern pristina, continu brussel eu intermediation, real path reach sustain agreement two sides, start point mean humili unaccept so-cal independ kosovo.",0,train
2439,"despit everything, believ agreement serb albanian key region stability. republ serbia remain commit find compromis solut issu kosovo build common futur polit peac cooperation.",0,test
2440,"ladi gentlemen, excellencies,",0,train
2441,"republ serbia commit peac secur well social econom prosper nation region dimension, also awar import activ engag area globally. attach big import un effort promot preserv peac secur worldwid activ particip collect secur system.",0,train
2442,"continu tradit yugoslavia’ particip un peacekeep missions, start 1956, repres serbia activ engag un eu peacekeep missions. great pride underlin lead countri western balkan region, 9th biggest contributor list lead european arm polic forc un missions.",0,train
2443,"additionally, serbia continu contribut fight terror full implement un global counter-terror strategi relev resolut unit nation secur council.",0,train
2445,"un charter “constitution” modern intern community, collect basic principl regul intern relat process intern commun one must stand back from.",0,train
2446,"unfortunately, end 20th century, countri wit victim unilater measur activ undermin question effici multilater intern cooper mechanisms, intern law itself.",0,train
2447,"feder republ yugoslavia, time, bomb without consent unit nation secur council, wherebi un charter sever violated.",0,train
2449,"defend sovereignti territori integr observ un sc resolut 1244  1999 , republ serbia time defend intern law, un charter well supremaci secur council.",0,train
2450,"believ essenti strengthen upcom period effort preserv principl organ found 75 year ago. convinc role unit nation process remain irreplaceable. rest assur republ serbia continu act seriou reliabl partner achiev common goals, strengthen cooper within unit nation build better futur us.",0,train
2452,"unesco special pieti emphas mediev art dare say signific man 20th 21st century, scientist nikola tesla, prove contribut civil common good. time frame white angel fresco, first paint went orbit, tesla, cover period renaiss contemporaries.",0,test
2453,"strive toward last peac common wellbeing, serbia oblig militari neutrality. rightli believ one strongest messag peac went balkan world.",0,test
2454,great american artist isidora duncan said great war:,0,train
2455,"“violenc big power often turn them. best exampl great brutal small exampl small serbian nation, put end empir last almost thousand years.”",0,train
2456,"serbia despis kind violence. serbia want peac prosperity, entir mankind. serbia want peac region.",0,train
2457,thank attent stay safehonor presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl,0,train
2458,honor secretary-gener unit nation,0,train
2459,honor head state govern,0,train
2460,honor deleg,0,train
2461,ladi gentlemen,0,train
2462,excel,0,train
2463,"would like begin remark congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly, offer full support term office, wish full successes.",0,train
2464,"indeed, elect reflect recognition, among member state organization, role countri play intern arena extens experience. certain greatli contribut success session’ work, allow identifi better path toward resolut major issu face intern community.",0,train
2465,would also like express gratitud professor tijjani muhammad band congratul wisdom dedic conduct work 74th session.,0,train
2471,"regard, unfortun continu see persist tension spot major humanitarian repercuss planet.",0,train
2474,"perenni issu western sahara continu caus concern us demand greater involv us search perman solut prolong negoti process. therefore, reiter call involv parti resum negoti reach mutual accept polit resolution.",0,train
2475,"addition, situat middl east also continu caus concern us, light constant hostil israel palestine, well situat syria yemen. therefore, must find compromis put end hostil pave way open dialog negoti toward polit solut establish last peac region world.",0,train
2480,"take opportun express appreci wave bilater multilater solidar benefit sao tome & principe, allow us escap potenti disaster. offer sincer profound gratitud intern community.",0,train
2481,"however, light devast effect covid-19 pandem economi fragil countries, sao tome & principe, small island state, renew call continu spirit solidar support post- covid-19 econom recovery, like challenging.",0,train
2483,"note, however, world chang significantli sinc creation organ 1945, urgent need adapt new challeng time.",0,train
2484,"therefore, reiter call reform process underway unit nation acceler order give greater momentum increas representation, effectiveness, capacity, legitimaci action lead mainten intern peac secur thu drive develop throughout world.",0,train
2485,mr. secretary-gener,0,train
2487,"however, awar intern effort requir us overcom enorm challeng face graduation. therefore, strongli appeal intern community’ continu support new stage country’ development.",0,test
2488,"closing, would like express wish world may see better day 75th session august gener assembly, peac security, progress toward sustain develop countri long for.",0,test
2489,"thank much attention.your excel volkan bozkir, presid gener assembl excel antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nation excellencies, colleagues, minist perman representatives, ladi gentlemen,",0,train
2490,introduct,0,train
2491,inde unpreced time histor anniversari global bodi nations. would honour person deliv maiden address rostrum gener assembly. onset continu preval covid-19 prevent this. thank make optim use modern technology.,0,train
2492,presid 75th session gener assembl undoubtedli face challeng conduct intern relat confer diplomacy. pleas allow pledg full support success discharg duties.,0,train
2493,"salut predecessor, tijjani muhammad-bande, skill leadership previou session wish well futur endeavors.",0,train
2494,"secretary-gener antonio guterres, wish pay tribut sterl effort guid organization.",0,train
2498,theme years’ session gener debat therefor opportune.,0,test
2499,"unit nation remain premier intern multilater organ exert emin role place develop further principl pertain intern relations, intern law, intern peac — development.",0,test
2501,"despit consider progress made global discuss varieti matter — climat change, sustain development, migration, refugees, terrorism, cyber-warfar nuclear prolifer — experienc multilater occasion come attack.",0,test
2502,"sinc found unit nation 75 year ago, geopolit field chang drastically. secur council membership work method need structur evaluation.",0,train
2503,imagin elabor two  2  decad reform main organ!,0,test
2504,therefor fit ask organ still relev current form. answer question today’ challeng aspirations?,0,train
2505,"hope, mr. president, don’t ask question 75 years!",0,train
2506,therefor utmost import multilater adapt chang times.,0,train
2507,call intern commun nation embark strateg assess exist multilater framework.,0,train
2508,"let us, base current realities, challenges, dare creat new multilater fundament focus peac prosper nation allow increas effici support institut framework.",0,test
2509,"multilateralism, acknowledg nations, irrespect size develop level place global order, equal respect.",0,train
2510,multilater complianc everi state intern law intern accept principl form bedrock interact ,0,train
2511,"multilateralism, base intern cooper confront mani global challeng seiz common opportunities, promot cultur inclus equality.",0,train
2512,"unilater action alway proven counterproduct never lead achiev defin objective. nevertheless, dialogu activ involv countries, take account intern principles, strive for.",0,train
2513,"importantly, mr. president, multilater necessit us recommit vision un charter.",0,train
2514,"regard, call lift longstand unilater economic, financi commerci embargo republ cuba people.",0,test
2515,multilater climat chang,0,train
2516,"focu intern commun current manag contain spread covid-19 pandemic, continu dedic attent challeng equal even greater impact sustain develop countri entir planet.",0,train
2517,address impact climat chang one challenges.,0,train
2518,"countri 239 mile low-li coastline, surinam among top 10 vulner countri respect disastr effect sea-level rise result global warming.",0,train
2519,"despit position, surinam taken lead countri highest forest cover low deforest rate, advoc mobil financi resourc support sustain development, make signific contribut mitig global warming.",0,train
2520,"estim stand forest store 12 gigaton forest carbon per year. small contribut all, believe!",0,train
2521,"however, nation commit may serv particular domest concerns, maxim impact strong intern engag necessari ambiti attain targets.",0,test
2523,reform intern system,0,train
2524,"past year realiz reform unit nation system, much remain done.",0,train
2525,"particip develop countries, especi small economies, global financi trade system one long overdu reform take place.",0,train
2527,way forward,0,train
2528,develop countri nation south passiv quest development.,0,train
2530,"essenc peopl elect us for. intern commun expect leaders, exampl inspir leadership vanguard hope common humanity.",0,train
2531,"hope allow us break wall mistrust, may take form intolerance, fear, violence. hope lead us strive peac prosper predecessor did.",0,train
2532,"particularli hope give upcom gener leader strength elev global assembl world leader place where, collectively, nation world find way make better life possibl global community, next 75 years.",0,train
2533,"congratul us reach mileston anniversary. let us unity, respect solidar strive make next 75 year even better save future.",0,test
2534,"thank you.mr. presid gener assembly,",0,train
2535,"excellences,",0,train
2537,"75 year ago, organ built simpl idea benefit cooper alway prevail selfish conflict. today, need idea becom realiti urgent ever.",0,train
2540,"one import lesson learn first month covid-19 ordinari peopl achiev extraordinari thing led solidar compassion. peopl around world understood respons behaviour save lives, even meant limit comfort. need take share respons protect others. would even dare say pandem crisi brought best us.",0,train
2541,"respons leader appli among nations. that' need true global compassion. concret terms: must allow develop product vaccin medic suppli becom yet anoth global competition. essential, life-sav commodities. such, provis sign humanity, matter econom profit. need share inform foster partnership among scientists, manufactur governments. provid vaccin anyon planet, regardless, whether afford not.",0,train
2544,"finally, trust. confid citizen govern right. peopl need know protect lie to.",0,train
2545,"guardian principl must free independ media, renown expert scientists, activ civil society. respons creat environ work freely. attack them, undermin abil solv problem collectively. make societi vulnerable, includ disinform hoaxes, proven especi danger relat health issues.",0,train
2547,"unfortunately, alway case. often see situat world, peopl intimidated, beaten even threaten lives. recent saw belarus, case alexei navalnyj, mani cases. stood rights. spread authoritarian diseas threat us.",0,train
2548,"one remark lesson covid-19. often hear certain chang impossible, take year make them. time, different.",0,train
2549,"experi much quickli achiev will realis common threat, chang behaviour work togeth order prevent it. vis-a-vi covid-19, also come global threats, well.",0,train
2552,"let us renew commit among us, even take — along mention principl solidarity, respons trust, resolv act shown current pandemic. then, chang threat — covid-19 climat chang — opportun benefit all.",0,train
2553,"thank you.excellences, ladi gentlemen, dear friends, mr. presid",0,train
2554,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations. 75 year ago, predecessor abl util experi devast world war took lead build vision better world.",0,train
2555,world prosper peace.,0,train
2556,world global wellbeing.,0,train
2557,world global cooper serv futur generations.,0,train
2558,establish unit nations.,0,train
2559,"today, dear friends, famili nation face less devast threats: global health econom crisis, degrad environ — threaten wellb kind home — planet.",0,train
2561,"face threat human nowadays, build common resilience, ladi gentlemen, one strong enough alon  need vigilant, active, responsible, brave wise — together.",0,train
2562,"rapidli chang global environment, increasingli depend new technolog digit infrastructure.",0,train
2564,need frame servic humankind. slovenia make effort direct first unesco global center artifici intellig establish ljubljana last november.,0,train
2565,"one main challeng cybersecurity. accord view, cyberspac secure, global, open, free inclusive.",0,train
2566,"fragment weaken intern secur regim worrying. strengthen commit effective, treaty-bas intern arm control, disarma non-proliferation.",0,train
2567,press prolifer issu solv diplomat peac means.,0,train
2568,"precondit achiev sustain peac reconciliation, deal grave violat human rights. therefor support intern crimin court central institut fight impunity.",0,train
2569,continu engag partnership cooper un fora.,0,train
2570,"slovenia especi activ landmin clearanc efforts, affect live civilians, particular children. glad report itf enhanc human security, slovenian non-profit organization, manag maintain oper capac presenc field midst pandemic.",0,train
2571,sustain develop goal clear roadmap green healthi planet. slovenia eu presid second half 2021 put environment protect high agenda. cop26 next year real game-changer.,0,train
2572,"recent first time, slovenia contribut one million euro un green climat fund.",0,train
2575,"slovenia’ initiative, un proclaim world bee day, celebr 20th may, recogn import bee pollin food security, biodivers sustain development.",0,test
2576,"person advocaci environment protect global local, base introduc public debat climat change, establish committe climat polici support youth movements.",0,train
2577,would like reaffirm slovenia’ person commit stop unpreced rate biodivers loss halt climat chang effects.,0,train
2578,join “leader pledg nature”.,0,train
2581,"country, slovenia, came being, inspir quest democraci fundament rights. know — current covid-19 crisi confirm — human right never taken granted.",0,train
2582,"situat vulner group — without suffici health care prosecut histor marginalized, worsened.",0,train
2583,need stress place discrimin base person statu modern societies.,0,train
2584,nobodi left behind.,0,train
2585,mark 25 year adopt beij declar platform action celebr gain gender equal women empowerment.,0,train
2586,"75 year ago mother father said “never again”. said “no” anoth total war, pointless death suffering, nationalist extremist tendencies, life uncertainti fear.",0,train
2587,"— well mani you, grew peac prosperity, world, built valu idea un founders. yes, un fail prevent conflicts, could oftentim react quicker, better, determined. nevertheless, agre world better place sinc 24 octob 1945 unit nations.",0,test
2588,"however, ladi gentlemen,",0,test
2589,world today differ place 75 year ago. today’ world less predict less secur yesterday.,0,test
2590,"amidst covid-19 pandemic, fact celebr import anniversari unpreced way — us differ part world, clearli indic capabl adapt. adapt joint work one human one planet share.",0,train
2591,"let therefor take opportun reaffirm slovenia’ commit multilater cooper framework un intern region organizations, includ within scope eu membership presid 2021.",0,train
2592,"mind, vital progress made respect human rights, intern law rule law comprehensive, inclusive, sustain develop societies.",0,train
2593,world increasingli connect interdependent. covid-19 crisi undoubtedli shown that.,0,train
2595,"75 year ago, predecessor built first bridge. today world tight network bridges, ask you, sake present futur generations, sake love one yourself, tear down.",0,train
2596,wish congratul us.,0,test
2597,"wish congratul thank predecessors, brave visionari enough start all.",0,train
2598,wish congratul gener parent gener keep go despit obstacles.,0,train
2599,"wish youth, slowli take over, courag wisdom better us.",0,train
2600,"would like give final word emin slovenian novelist bori pahor, also known oldest known survivor nazi concentr camps, 107 year age still outspoken fighter totalitarianisms.",0,train
2601,"says: “human enough wisdom power find path lead us crises, toward becom ethic human being.” believ him.",0,train
2602,"hvala! thank you!“excellencies,",0,train
2604,"time like test resili societi intern cooperation. ever, need work togeth solidarity.",0,train
2605,"spirit, sweden qatar co-chair negoti “declar commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nations”, adopt 21 september. member state sent strong messag support rules-bas intern order multilateralism. re-commit strengthen intern cooperation, modern, innov inclus un core.",0,train
2607,"-	the pandemic,",0,train
2608,"-	the climat crisis,",0,train
2609,"-	widen inequalities,",0,train
2610,-	violat intern law,0,train
2611,-	and threat intern peace.,0,train
2612,"create, secretary-gener guterr call recent mandela lecture, new social contract new global deal.",0,train
2613,sweden fulli support un’ leadership global covid-19 respons recognis crucial role world health organization.,0,train
2614,"far, sweden contribut $170 million global response. togeth number world leaders, express commit secur equit global access futur covid-19 vaccines. one safe everyon safe. secur access vaccin global challeng requir intern cooper solidarity.",0,train
2615,"climat chang one press issues. throughout world, young old peopl alik march togeth street demand decisionmak like us act line scientif recommendations. must reshap societi lower emissions. sweden strive first fossil-fre welfar nation welcom competit beat us post.",0,test
2616,62 91,0,train
2617,21-00394,0,train
2618,75 592 add.8,0,train
2622,25th anniversari landmark “beij declaration” platform action” offer opportun intensifi effort gender equality. sweden readi take lead role un women’ “global action coalit econom justic rights”. delight see other join sweden pursu feminist foreign policy.,0,train
2624,"sweden continu promot drive democracy, aim strengthen respect democrat principl institutions, civil societi intern law. support secretary-general’ “call action human rights”.",0,train
2626,"also seen trade barrier introduc pandemic. free, fair sustain trade key order creat new job increas prosperity. world trade organ essenti role uphold rules-bas intern trade system.",0,train
2627,"around world, record number peopl need humanitarian aid survive. protract conflict yemen result world’ largest humanitarian crisis. urg donor step support humanitarian response. support un peac effort urg parti immedi agre ceasefire,",0,train
2628,63 91,0,test
2629,inclus polit talk continu implement stockholm riyadh agreements.,0,train
2630,extend solidar support lebanes peopl follow devast explos beirut.,0,test
2632,fight impun intern crime remain essential. sweden steadfast support intern crimin court.,0,train
2633,"women’ influenc — peac processes, polit transit crisi recoveri — crucial. year mark 20th anniversari secur council resolut 1325  2000   must year concret action.",0,train
2634,sweden remain activ partner unit nation through:,0,train
2635,"-	financi core support,",0,train
2636,"-	diplomacy,",0,train
2637,-	mediat,0,train
2638,"-	and contributor militari polic personnel un peac operations, includ minusma. follow develop mali great concern. peaceful, swift transit civilian leadership, democrat elections, vital.",0,train
2640,"support, viabl mean solv conflict israel palestine, negoti solut two state live peac security. must base intern agre paramet end occupation. eu posit clear: annex occupi territori illegal.",0,test
2642,"plenti challeng across globe, also hope. sudan once-in-a-gener opportunity. women young peopl took street 2019, demand polit change, courag polit decis followed. sudan deserv support difficult path democracy.",0,train
2643,"next year, sweden assum role chair organ secur co-oper europe. main prioriti work conflict resolut build osc comprehens concept security, democraci human right core. european secur order must upheld, renegotiated.",0,test
2644,"sweden alarm situat belaru follow elect 9 august, neither free fair. increas repress peac demonstrators, journalist opposit leader unacceptable. stand solidar belarusian peopl desir exercis fundament democrat rights. continu call belarusian leadership stop repress engag genuin dialogu op-position. stand readi facilit dialogue.",0,train
2645,"year also mark 75th anniversari atom bomb hiroshima nagasaki. serv tragic remind catastroph humanitarian consequ use nuclear weapons. nuclear threat present ever. mileston treati abandon risk, new nuclear capabl developed. call unit state russia agre extens “new start treaty”, china join discuss follow- arrangements.",0,test
2647,"togeth eu, strongli support full implement “joint comprehens plan action”.",0,train
2648,call democrat people’ republ korea adher intern oblig take step toward denuclearisation.,0,train
2649,remain commit peac resolut situat korean peninsula.,0,train
2650,futur gener grow differ world. opportun shape direction.,0,train
2651,"togeth countries, sweden mobilis support secretary-gener advanc common agenda laid seventi fifth anniversari declaration.",0,train
2652,"-	together, build better societies.",0,train
2653,"-	together, build stronger societies.",0,train
2654,"and, together, address challeng lie ahead. thank you.mr. president,",0,train
2655,"excellencies, head state govern",0,train
2656,"honour address 75th session unit nation gener assembly. congratul you, excellency, follow appoint presid session. also express appreci predecessor outstand work contribut success 74th session.",0,test
2659,"yet come togeth reflect here, know work far complete, acknowledg spirit cooper held us bound, face its’ greatest challeng thu far. reason therefor welcom year’ theme, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0,train
2660,"year’ theme, rightli challeng us critic self-examine. 75th session unit nation gener assembly, must year come togeth discuss prioriti human family, build better futur all. remind unit nation revisit stick ideal recogn dignity, priorit valu cooper equal worth all, leav one behind.",0,train
2661,"earlier year, unit nation held commemor sign charter unit nations, present opportun us reflect relev charter today, recommit goal principl laid therein. kingdom eswatini welcom host event join other share thought relat initi sign develop occur now.",0,train
2662,"further, cast sight forward imagin potenti challeng could aris us deal with. remain absolut fact us, that, whatev challeng come before, whatev strife face today whatev incid may lay wait us, deal best, deal together.",0,train
2664,"however, still must recogn inconsist collect behavior. mani countri continu live poverti amid great natur wealth. mani instances, nation interest continu imped resolut crises. challeng migrant flow requir collect approach.",0,test
2666,"kingdom eswatini, like rest world, deal impact covid-19 pandemic. us, came time kingdom face multipl battl scourg hiv, malaria tuberculosis, place huge strain resources. rel small economy, boast huge reserv financ fight new onslaught. welcom recent held high-level event financ develop era covid-19 beyond.",0,train
2669,"commun nation must accept realiti crisi forev chang way life  must resist temptat revert back knew normal, duti prepar “new normal”. opportun beckon pandem reveal consid normal shown lack abil deliv mani socio-econom needs. therefore, focu entail respons crisi so, shape futur face possibl crises.",0,train
2670,"success prepared respons plan must incorpor strategi strengthen nation beyond recovery. relev strategi mark birth new societi present futur want. easi isol way fix present prepar future, except collect commit multilateralism. unit nation intern body, famili nations, therefore, alway center catalyst multilater support futur want, extension, unit nation need.",0,train
2671,"juncture, let commend presid gener assembly, secretari gener staff unit nations, intern financi institutions, develop partner everyon quick respons reaction mitig impact pandem midst implement 2030 agenda sustain goals. mani countri benefit gone unnoticed. world commit rio de janeiro 2012, opportun time reiter recommit sustain develop promot economically, social environment sustain futur planet present futur generations.",0,train
2674,"welcom mandat event schedul held margin gener assembl year, name twenty-fifth anniversari fourth world confer women, high-level meet commemor promot intern day total elimin nuclear weapon summit biodiversity. trust event shall success.",0,train
2675,"intim earlier, 2020 mark twenty-fifth anniversari fourth world confer women adopt beij declar platform action. signific year acceler realiz gender equal empower women girls. nonetheless, lament though global commun celebr twenty-fifth anniversari fourth world confer women, countri achiev full gender equality. poverty, violenc women girls, relentless pushback women’ right gender equal remain preval across world.",0,train
2676,"believ anniversari appropri occas give new momentum action. encourag governments, civil societi stakehold assess gains, identifi gap challenges, critic set prioriti gener futur generations. challeng world facing, never import advanc elimin form discrimin violenc women girls, now. need renew polit deliv commit made. let us recommit common goal achiev gender equal empower women girl enjoy human rights, everywhere.",0,train
2678,"evalu current statu organization, must reflect ongo process reforms. process, is, itself, tacit admiss part chang need happen ensur continu relev un its’ subsidiari bodies. time elaps sinc discuss began, caus concern. however, believ year give us moral imper push acceler progress reforms.",0,train
2679,"support ongo discuss within framework ad hoc work revit work un gener assembl  ahwg  seek find mechan enhanc role effici gener assembly. recogn work gone streamlin work econom social council  ecosoc , particular relat function gener assembl enhanc synergi reduc overlap two bodies.",0,train
2681,"conclude, among polit issu continu fester long continu denial right peopl taiwan particip un system.",0,train
2682,"taiwan shown signific commit ideal unit nation align prioriti organization. taiwan has, further, commit signific resourc attain sustain develop goals, within boundaries, go far assist countri same.",0,train
2683,"earlier reflect upon assist kingdom eswatini fight covid-19 pandemic, taiwan deserv special mention regard. uncertain times, resourc dwindling, taiwan express commit toward collabor global citizenship, shown manifest support develop initi undertaken countri and, particular, kingdom eswatini.",0,train
2684,"global interdepend world, crucial work togeth construct counsel appropriate. unit nation home interact role, retain unmitig support kingdom eswatini.",0,train
2685,"thank may almighti god bless you.your excellency, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly,",0,train
2687,"rarely, press time creativ think innov respond modern challenges.",0,train
2689,"effective, joint effort need coordin deliv revitalis inclus multilater system, compris voic stakeholders, includ youth, civil societi privat sector ensur global all-of-societi approach.",0,train
2691,"seychel step challeng despit face economi crippl collaps tourism, primari industry.",0,test
2693,"join undertak tourism businesses, key driver seychelles’ economi continu play instrument role draft seychelles’ tourism comeback togeth government. however, everyth seychel done date minimis impact covid-19 sustain longterm deplet foreign exchang reserves.",0,test
2695,forese 14 per cent budgetari deficit year instead 4 per cent surplu project covid-19. seychel economi set grow 3.9 per cent year end 2020 -15.2 per cent.,0,train
2696,"estim take least five year seychel return covid-19, assum world get vaccin ensur novel coronaviru longer global public health threat.",0,train
2699,"however, cannot maintain long term, often cost worsen debt burden part loom global debt crisis.",0,train
2700,"shortag effect global solut sid unit nation celebr 75th anniversari alarming.th ultim test multilater lie way assist vulner economi today, ultim decid whether attain futur want.",0,train
2701,"call relev stakehold take immediate, substanti tailor action allow us manag crisi address grave socio-econom impact preserv develop achiev reinforc resili futur shocks.",0,train
2703,"intern financi institut re-examin elig criteria tailor sids’ access concession financ take account extrem vulner economic, climat public health shock put us particular risk disadvantage.",0,test
2704,"seychel back aosis, allianc small island states, call sid compact, cater specif persist constraint vulnerabilities.",0,train
2709,cannot healthi recoveri covid-19 pandem heal poor relationship natur environment. say goe human health depend nature’ health.,0,train
2710,"understand well seychel two main pillar economy, tourism fishing, depend state natural, especi ocean, environment.",0,train
2711,"so, march 26 year pandem rage across world, seychel went ahead deliv 2012 rio+20 commit protect 30 per cent giant exclus econom zone 1.34 million squar kilometr 2020.",0,train
2712,"recognit even dealt public health emergency, cherish import natur people’ physical, econom social wellbeing.",0,train
2715,"achiev 1.5-degre celsiu goal remain critic leav countri behind.th drop greenhous ga emiss improv air qualiti pandem temporary, research show neglig impact climat crisis.",0,test
2716,"know long covid-19 pandem last, know head toward temperatur increas approxim 3 degre celsiu busi continu usual. devast consequ us all, especi sid vulner countries.",0,train
2717,covid-19 biggest global challeng time. climat chang number one threat humanity.,0,train
2718,postpon cop26 novemb 2021 mean postpon climat action urgently-need effort rais climat ambitions.,0,train
2719,seychelles’ updat nation determin contribut  ndc  climat pledg pari agreement accordingli whole chapter har ocean surround island nature-bas climat action.,0,train
2720,"seychelles’ ndc champion blue carbon ecosystem mangrov vast expans seagrass meadows, form part new marin protect areas.",0,train
2721,enabl us big ocean state contribut global fight climat chang far reli sole land-bas actions.,0,train
2724,mani argu societi unwil make behaviour chang necessari address climat chang effectively. countries’ respons covid-19 show otherwis  chang previous unthink ways.,0,train
2728,"transform take us all, vulner countri fragil economi included, sustain resili post-covid world better equip meet goal 2030 agenda pari agreement climat change, small island develop states.",0,train
2730,"honest ourselves, must admit answer clear. stray everi day principl valu underpin unit nation intern norms. govern illeg impos agenda nation use unit nation sole purpos further agendas.",0,test
2731,"paradoxically, main theme year’ gener debat “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. quit frankli situat today bode well futur want, reflect unit nation need. want secur prosper future, free terrorism, occupation, inhuman sanctions. want futur respect intern law promot dialogu understand nations. need unit nation uphold principl purpos charter unequivoc stand war warmongers. need unit nation support member avoid politicization, illeg interference, attempt destroy nation communities. want along. need today ever before. true confront covid-19, pose global humanitarian socioeconom challeng spare nation. creat except condit extent forc address today remot pre-record statements. import question is: new realiti compel put asid narrow interest return right path?",0,train
2733,"hope work towards. unfortunately, realiti ground complet opposite. polit agenda continu take preced humanitarian agendas. covid-19 pandem rage across world, unilater coerciv measur impos syrian peopl peopl renew instead lifted. new measures, call “caesar syria civilian protect act,” ad fals pretexts. “the caesar syria civilian suffoc act” would fit name. deliveri lifesav medic medic equip block middl pandemic, realli protect civilian depriv treatment? effort rebuild syria destruct brought terrorist obstructed, realli serv syrian reduc employment, worsen live conditions, prevent return refuge idps? wheat field burn down, oil field looted, energi sector targeted, realli protect civilian deni access food, heating, gas, electricity?",0,train
2734,"could go on, think it’ clear real purpos act put pressur syrians, livelihoods, daili lives. inhuman attempt suffoc syrians, like georg floyd other cruelli suffoc unit states, like israel suffoc palestinian daili basis. though tactic may differ, essenc same.",0,train
2735,"unilater coerciv measur impos countri clearli violat intern law. humanitarian exempt repeatedli invok exist ground. fals claim intend cover inhuman save face. call affect countri reject measur close rank allevi impact peoples. happen cooperation, coordination, concret political, economic, commerci means.",0,train
2738,"make matter worse, turkish regim fail commit astana outcom sochi agreement idlib. move terrorist mercenari — refer “moder opposition” — syria libya.",0,train
2740,"continu illegitim presenc american turkish forc syrian soil meet legal condit occupation. syrian arab republ spare effort end occup mean possibl intern law. action forces, taken directli terrorist agents, secessionist militias, manufactur illegitim entities, null void, legal effect. flagrant violat syria’ sovereignty, independence, territori integrity. regard, condemn crime so-cal global coalit commit sinc start illeg intervent syrian jazira region. includ syphon oil, prevent farmer sell wheat syrian state, attack town syrian armi checkpoints, destroy hous infrastructure.",0,test
2741,also condemn action so-cal sdf. secessionist militia plot syria’ uniti peopl loot resources. detain kill civilian oppos northeast syria assassin region figures. messag simple: stand countri learn histori it’ late.,0,train
2742,"excel presid bashar al-assad, presid syrian arab republic, made posit clear above, speak elect member parliament:",0,train
2743,"“in middl global convuls throe chaos, obfuscation, lies, lose focus. miss target. enemies’ polici one support terrorism, polici decim terror liber remain territori restor territori integr protect people. time depend readi arm forc march battle. battl starts, distinguish homegrown terrorist foreign ones. differenti terrorist occupi forces. make distinct zionists, turks, americans. territory, enemies.”",0,train
2744,"regard, pay tribut syrian arab armi sacrifices. larg part thank except success war terrorism. would also like thank alli friend valuabl support assist nobl fight.",0,train
2745,"syrian govern alway engag polit process. particip openli talk geneva, consult moscow, meet astana. dealt posit outcom syrian nation dialogu congress sochi, includ format committe discuss constitution. seriou construct convers special envoy syria, leadup format conven constitut committe geneva. hope committe succeed. success, however, possibl extern interfer whatsoev work party. sinc committe form start work, becom master itself. committe decid method work recommendations. whole process z must exclus syrian-l syrian-owned. syrian sole right determin futur country.",0,train
2746,"israel persist systemat grave violat human right intern humanitarian law syrian golan, occupi sinc 1967. includ settlement construction, racial discrimination, arbitrari detention, torture, loot golan’ natur resources. past years, israel also support terrorist launch repeat attack syrian territories. worth note that, violat continue, so-cal intern commun remain silent. even support israel perpetu occupation. yet anoth sign hypocrisi countri champion human right suit politically.",0,test
2747,"said, delusion think difficult situat face syria could chang fact golan alway part syria, rest recov fully, border 4 june 1967. issu subject bargaining, blackmailing, statut limitations. illeg isra action us decis chang anyth all. null void carri legal effect intern law relev un resolutions, notabl secur council resolut 497  1981 .",0,train
2748,"matter principle, syria reiter steadfast support right palestinian peopl establish independ state, jerusalem capital, along line 4 june 1967. refuge must guarante right return homeland keep intern law relev un resolutions. condemn war crime crime human commit israel occupi palestinian territories. hold countri support israel respons implic crimes. decisions, steps, deal run counter relev un resolut violat palestinian right unten void form substance.",0,train
2749,"syria renew support islam republ iran us polici aim undermin nuclear agreement destabil region. polici reflect us administration’ disregard intern law oblig intern agreements. syria also condemn unjust econom embargo cuba venezuela. stress sovereign right nation must respected, reject form interfer intern affairs.",0,train
2750,thank you.mr. presid ,0,train
2751,ladi gentlemen head state deleg ,0,train
2752,mr. secretary-gener unit nation ,0,train
2753,"field marshal chad, mr. idriss debi into, presid republic, head state, would like address august assembl person unabl so, instruct deliv follow messag you.",0,train
2754,"“i would like first congratul presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session, excel ambassador volkan bozkir, whose elect come particularli difficult time covid-19 pandemic, assur country’ full support carri mandate.",0,train
2755,"“at time, would like express sincer thank excel mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, outgo president, abl carri mission success despit unexpect outbreak pandemic, must impact work agenda.",0,test
2756,"“allow pay glow tribut excel mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, wise leadership manag crisi throughout challeng period.",0,test
2757,"“i would like take opportun congratul director- gener world health organization, excel mr. tedro adhanom ghebreyesus, collaborators, remark work fight pandem daili basis. lesson learn pandem provid us opportun rethink health systems. therefore, must adapt term prevent combat occurr pandem future.",0,train
2759,“excel ,0,train
2760,"“ladi gentlemen,",0,train
2764,"“it also occas underlin absolut urgenc strengthen multilater reform global governance, sever test period, view adapt today’ world order better face resolv current futur challenges.",0,train
2765,"“chad emphas imper need increas intern cooper meaning solidar vulner countries, least-develop countries, landlock develop countri small island develop state promis charter unit nation fulli realiz ultim goal 2030 agenda sustain develop leav one behind becom realiti — anoth broken promise.",0,train
2768,"“a countri situation, socioeconom situat chad concern. growth current year revis neg  budget deficit increas  sever hundr thousand worker becom offici unemploy  household life significantli affect  macroeconom data 2021 look good. government’ abil implement develop activ eman nation develop plan chad period 2017 2021, main lever implement intern agendas, particular first 10-year implement plan agenda 2063 african union unit nation 2030 agenda sustain development, eroded.",0,train
2770,"“excellencies,",0,train
2771,"worth recal that, last year, gener assembl seventy-fourth session, assess progress made enorm gap remain rel fulfil commit made within framework 2030 agenda term end extrem poverty, ensur access qualiti education, combat climat change, reduc inequ ensur inclusion.",0,train
2772,"“in particular, africa gap financ sustain develop enormous. promis made 2030 agenda sustain develop addi ababa action agenda fulfilled.",0,train
2773,"“thi moment underscor that, without robust action taken stakeholders, highli like share goal achiev sustain develop goal 2030 agenda met. decad action key translat word action marshal resourc need ramp implement 2030 agenda.",0,train
2776,"“in view magnitud challeng met present futur multisector needs, chad call outright cancel extern debt african countri success respond covid-19 crisi adequ commit address post- covid-19 socioeconom reconstruct firmer foundation.",0,train
2779,“but illusions. terrorist threat disappear overnight. continu remain vigil engag secur final restor affect area erad terrorist threat.,0,train
2780,"“in context, emphas respons combat terror sahel lake chad region also international, struggl part global effort ensur intern peac security.",0,test
2782,"“if situat sahel improv despit mani initi commit partners, fault lie primarili failur fulfil promis made support g-5 sahel joint forc g-5 sahel prioriti invest programme.",0,train
2784,"“our state made consider effort despit modest resources. certainli benefit multifacet support bilater multilater partner express sincer gratitude. given magnitud challenges, continu reliabl intern support crucial.",0,train
2785,“we take opportun call secur council place g-5 sahel joint forc chapter vii un charter order ensur sustain predict financing.,0,train
2789,"“in light, urgent need implement measur adopt within framework financ fight climat change, particularli aim marshal substanti resourc develop countries, longer doubt.",0,test
2794,"“with regard situat palestine, chad welcom agreement reach israel unit arab emirates, provides, inter alia, suspens annex certain part west bank.",0,train
2795,"also welcom agreement state bahrain. chad reaffirm commit two-stat solut within pre-jun 1967 borders, accord relev secur council resolut 2002 arab peac initiative.",0,train
2796,"“with regard embargo impos cuba, chad reiter call definit lifting.",0,train
2797,“the un need must meet aspir member states. africa must full place decision-mak organ unit nations. disput un secur council reform seem intermin us challeng urgent requir attention.,0,train
2798,"“it time justic equiti restor africa. regard, chad remain commit common african posit articul ezulwini consensus.",0,test
2799,“i wish work everi success.,0,train
2800,"“thank kind attention.”at outset, would like congratul you, sir, elect presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session. also commend outstand work outgo president, excel mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, contribut advanc organ wisdom leadership difficult time go through. would also like reaffirm confid pay tribut secretary-gener antonio guterr skill pursu share goals.",0,train
2811,"first all, pleas allow extend sincer congratul you, mr. president, elect presid 75th session gener assembly.",0,train
2812,year one utmost signific unit nation mark 75th anniversary. organ symbolis solidar cooper inspir world’ human trust uniti purpos member state build peac well-b peopl earth.,0,train
2814,"so, everi countri must renew trust intern cooperation, must remain steadfast shaken nationalist sentiment antiglob tendencies. instead, motiv us unit one overcom crisi together, sinc proven nation face challeng alone. futur want.",0,train
2815,"take opportun express thailand’ solidar affect countries. wish patient speedi recovery, medic personnel, public health workers, volunt sector around globe forefront fight covid-19, wish success challeng mission, pleas keep safe.",0,train
2816,"royal thai govern commit determin control spread covid-19. establish “centr covid-19 situat administration”  ccsa  head take full command aspect pandem control. thailand’ comprehens measur combat covid-19 implement accord intern health regul 2005 world health organization’ guidelines. encompass “upstream, midstream downstream” measur including: health screen risk assess inbound outbound travel  “stay home, save live nation” campaign appli social distanc public space  provis comprehensive, time transpar inform pandem situat strengthen effort combat fake news disinformation.",0,train
2821,"time hardship, trust countri provid mutual support exhibit solidar region global levels. commend secretarygener call member state show global solidar overcom crisi sustain manner initi establish variou fund assist affect countries. thailand proud contribut “un covid-19 respons recoveri fund”, region level, thailand gratifi leader asean dialogu partner agre thailand’ propos set “covid-19 asean respons fund” address public health emerg support research develop medicin vaccin strengthen asean’ resili long term. indeed, strong asean provid good partner unit nation intern community. moreover, order prepar post-covid scenario respond futur challenges, thailand stand readi cooper countri area food energi secur well sustain development.",0,train
2822,"effort reviv economy, thailand launch “stop covid, thai economy” polici embrac new busi model “bio- circular-green economy” “bcg” place emphasi bioeconomy, circular economy, green economy. thailand also appli concept suffici economi philosophi  sep , recogn local driven approach toward sustainability, build strength within, connect thailand world, move forward leav one behind.",0,test
2824,"throughout 75 year membership unit nations, thailand continu consist play construct role, adher intern oblig respect principl un charter.",0,train
2825,"peac security, 75 years, unit nation intern commun recogn success peac disput settlement, well provid assist popul post-conflict areas. part, apart strong commit disarmament, 27,000 thai military, polic civilian personnel proudli serv 20 un peac mission around world sinc 1958. thailand’ contribut peac oper continu amidst current pandem crisis. thai peacekeep attach import sustain peac agenda introduc suffici economi philosophi  sep  develop approach address root caus conflict prevent recurrence, line sdg 16  peace, justic strong institut . furthermore, would like reiter commit strengthen cooper friendli countri enhanc asean’ construct role maintain peac secur region. occasion, wish thank member state support thailand’ candidatur member peacebuild commiss term 2021-2022 wish affirm thailand intend discharg duti member commiss benefit intern community.",0,train
2827,"co-host global south-south develop expo 2021 bangkok next year, togeth unit nation offic south-south cooper econom social commiss asia pacific, member ecosoc, stand readi share experi best practic sustain develop guid principl suffici economi philosophi  sep .",0,train
2829,"year mark 25th anniversari adopt beij declar platform action gender equality. part, thailand continu drive implement beij declar integr cross-cut issu realiz gender equality, women’ empowerment, women’ rights.",0,train
2832,"thank you.your excel mr. president, excel mr. secretary-general, ladi gentlemen!",0,train
2833,outset great delight extend heartfelt congratul mr.volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly.,0,train
2837,applaud commit prais effort state develop anti- covid vaccine.,0,train
2838,"much hope access state vaccin producer-countri initi suppli certain amount vaccin humanitarian aid cover vulner group countries, priorit women, children elderli people.",0,train
2839,"covid-19 outbreak signific impact republ tajikistan, becom matter deep concern.",0,train
2841,"prestigi intern organ assess consequ coronaviru spread ongo process, would definit advers impact global economi development.",0,train
2842,situat pose countless unpreced challeng front tajikistan’ development.,0,test
2844,tajikistan mountain landlock countri possess suffici amount oil ga resources.,0,train
2845,"meantime, depend import fuel almost hundr percent, well import good products, includ food pharmaceut eighti nineti per cent accordingly.",0,train
2846,"accord preliminari estimations, due neg impact extern econom factors, total damag tajikistan’ economi year would amount $2 billion like number may increas future.",0,train
2848,crystal clear advanc construct process possibl last stabil overal safeti secured.,0,train
2849,"par unpreced wave covid-19 nowaday expans scale intens terror extremism, arm conflict wars, transnat organ crime, includ traffick narcot modern threat challeng remain alarming.",0,train
2852,"along this, view, particular import elabor new effect mean common fight terrorism, includ mean state-of-the-art technology, cooper coordin among relev secur author member states.",0,train
2854,tajikistan convinc respons grow threat terror must all-embrac unit nation play key coordin role process.,0,train
2855,"tajikistan locat frontlin address secur threat challeng made determin continu make invalu contribut counter terror extremism, fight transnat organ crime, includ tackl drug trafficking.",0,train
2856,"end, maintain foster product cooper partner intern organizations, particular relev un agencies.",0,train
2857,develop present implement share initi alreadi yield notic results.,0,train
2858,current two nation strategi — first counter-terror extrem second counter-narcot traffick final phase implement country.,0,train
2860,believ necessari compli rule implement provis relev gener accept treati conventions.,0,train
2861,"regard, tajikistan sustain fruit cooper relev unit nation agenc region organizations, commonwealth independ states, shanghai cooper organ collect secur treati organization.",0,train
2862,also establish product bilater cooper relationship partner countries.,0,train
2864,"accordingly, necessari strengthen prevent activity’ dimens un, includ improv region center prevent diplomaci central asia.",0,train
2866,tajikistan hail unit nation peacekeep oper strive contribut promot process extent possible.,0,test
2867,"polic forc involv un peacekeep oper darfur, south sudan citi abyei sudan.",0,train
2868,commit continu cooper area relev unit nation bodies.,0,train
2870,much hope tajikistan’ initi encourag member-st give support candidacy.,0,train
2871,"tajikistan share almost 1,400 km. border afghanistan.",0,train
2872,"therefor give utmost attent military, polit socioeconom situat close extend neighbor country.",0,train
2874,"state time again, afghan case militari solut tajikistan inde welcom peace-build negoti process support approach aim address polit crisi country.",0,train
2875,"destini futur afghanistan first foremost led own afghan peopl belief firm stabil situat countri achiev afghan-led, afghan-own afghan- control peacebuild process.",0,train
2876,tajikistan year presid “the heart asia - istanbul process” presid strive increas genuin effici platform.,0,train
2877,day tajikistan contribut implement sever joint region project afghanistan.,0,test
2878,built power transmiss line construct six transboundari bridges.,0,train
2879,stand readi advanc cooper would help activ involv afghanistan region integr process facilit socio-econom recovery.,0,train
2880,"implement project highway connect two countries’ construct power transmiss lines, particularli casa-1000 jointli countri region, profession train afghan specialist differ sector among area cooper sustain commit promote.",0,train
2881,ten year left end 2030 agenda sustain develop goals.,0,test
2882,intern commun made signific progress direct past five years.,0,train
2884,"repercuss covid-19 also neg affect country, one proactiv member global commun implement 2030 agenda.",0,train
2885,would like recal tajikistan one first countri adopt 2030 nation develop strategi line 2030 agenda.,0,train
2886,countri present nation voluntari report back 2017 introduc progress achiev toward sustain develop goals.,0,train
2888,"give utmost import climat chang challenges, process pose seriou hardship nations, includ tajikistan.",0,train
2889,"past sixti years, averag annual temperatur tajikistan increas one degree.",0,train
2890,"result increas number day heavi precipit intens natur hydro-meteorolog phenomena, year year affect countri throughout world.",0,train
2892,natur disast often caus casualties.,0,train
2893,area glacier locat countri essenti central asia notic reduc recent decades.,0,test
2894,one thousand thirteen thousand glacier locat tajikistan mountain melt away far.,0,train
2895,happen although sixti percent central asia’ water resourc accumul territori tajikistan.,0,train
2897,"situat caus neg impact quantiti qualiti safe drink water, well water-rel sectors, particularli agricultur energy.",0,train
2898,"connect circumstance, countri region concern shift hydrolog cycle.",0,train
2900,"tajikistan gener nineti nine percent electr hydro-electr power stations, renew ‘green’ energi sources.",0,train
2901,countri among less carbon dioxid emitt world.,0,train
2902,"context, wish offer follow propos toward seek way address climat change, previous introduc intern fora:",0,train
2904,2.	comprehens support donor countri intern region financi institut implement nation strategi program adapt climat change.,0,train
2905,"3.	reinforc regular monitor gener water resources, especi glaciers.",0,test
2906,4.	strengthen intern cooper protect water resourc implement tajikistan’ propos establish intern glacier preserv fund.,0,train
2908,hope intern partner support step tajikistan undertak forward areas.,0,train
2909,unit nation acknowledg tajikistan initi champion countri advanc water agenda.,0,train
2910,"countri author major unit nations’ initi resolut water, includ “the intern decad action “water sustain development” 2018 - 2028”.",0,train
2912,tajikistan’ resolut entitl “comprehens mid-term review intern decad action “water sustain development” 2018-2028 adopt 2018 enrich global water agenda.,0,train
2913,"resolut along import goal objectives, call conven unit",0,train
2914,"nation confer comprehens mid-term review intern decad action “water sustain development”, 2018-2028 new york march 2023.",0,train
2915,event valu import initi term support toward implement decad conduct high-level polit forum sustain development.,0,train
2916,"worth recal last un confer water held yet 1977 mar de plata, argentina.",0,train
2917,mean unit nation host water confer 46 years.,0,train
2918,"confid claim unit nation member states, un special agenc organ demonstr grow interest utmost attent decad action “water sustain development” nation alreadi express willing host region preparatori meetings.",0,train
2919,"regretfully, spread ofcovid-19 affect plan schedul event postponed.",0,train
2920,"hope victori coronaviru pandemic, stakehold countries, along tajikistan, abl take full advantag opportun conven event scheduled.",0,train
2921,"conclusion, would like draw attent unit nation member state draft resolut propos tajikistan un confer comprehens mid-term review implement intern decad action “water sustain development”, 2018-2028.",0,train
2922,decid review resolut un gener assembl session.,0,train
2923,"would like encourag distinguish deleg support initiative, like gener support previou resolutions.",0,train
2924,thank kind attention!dear mr. president!,0,train
2925,dear mr. secretari general!,0,train
2926,"first all, let congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl wish success respons position.",0,train
2927,would like ask mr. tijjani muhammad-band accept sincer gratitud abl effect work presid gener assembl 74th session.,0,train
2928,dear participants!,0,train
2929,ladi gentlemen!,0,train
2930,want start speech word deep sorrow hundr thousand peopl surviv coronaviru pandemic.,0,train
2932,eye focus hope faith scientist research work vaccin drug stop pandemic. address gratitud willing provid possibl support import mission.,0,train
2934,dear mr. president!,0,train
2936,countri establish close intern cooper bilater format intern organ time.,0,train
2937,"first all, note turkmenistan close cooper unit nations. context, fulli support call appeal un secretari gener made statement march 23 30 year.",0,train
2939,"turkmenistan continu longstand effect partnership world health organ time. highli appreci role fight coronavirus. recommend shown valid countri serv import guidelin activ medic institutions. continu expand concret cooper world health organ bring systematic, long-term level.",0,train
2942,"particular, aegi who, consid appropriate:",0,train
2943,-	to establish special programm world health organ research,0,train
2944,coronaviru genom ,0,train
2945,-	to develop multilater mechan pneumonia control ,0,train
2946,-	establish methodolog center treatment prevent acut,0,train
2947,infections.,0,train
2948,readi meaning commun implement initi interest countri intern structures.,0,train
2951,issu cooper transport sphere less urgent.,0,train
2952,"one initi wide intern commun transport issues, turkmenistan propos consid issu ensur stabl intern transport emerg situations. prepar correspond draft resolut gener assembl submit consider un member states.",0,test
2953,believ intern confer minist landlock develop countri plan turkmenistan next year effect platform develop coordin approach problem.,0,train
2955,distinguish head member delegations!,0,train
2958,"obviously, work way, substanti work done un, intern organ provid assist intern fund save aral sea. thank highli appreci work.",0,train
2960,"would like underlin import un gener assembl resolut “on cooper unit nation intern fund save aral sea” adopt initi countri april 2018 may 2019. today, resolut repres platform consolid joint effort aral sea area.",0,test
2961,turkmenistan present initi draft concept structur futur special programm aral sea framework escap session may 2021 mean develop intern legal foundat address aral sea issue. call upon state interest intern organ discuss documents.,0,train
2962,distinguish participants!,0,train
2963,"current gener assembl session take place amid complex pain event relat escal militari polit rivalri unfortun wit today. assess event caus effect relationship may differ. certain that, neg affect overal intern situation, erod global secur foundat imped economic, trade humanitarian relations.",0,train
2965,restor trust intern polit establish cultur respect dialogu way achiev objective.,0,train
2966,"known, initi turkmenistan un gener assembl adopt septemb last year resolut declar year 2021 year intern peac trust. turkmenistan put forward initi organ intern forum peac trust next year implement provis resolution. strongli believ that, forum abl give strong impetu construct respect multilater dialogu press subject modern global agenda.",0,train
2967,"year turkmenistan mark signific date history. 25th anniversari moment countri institution statu perman neutral intern commun un 12 december, 1995.",0,train
2968,"neutral one foundat statehood, intern foreign polici quarter century. principl neutrality, valu ideolog proven full complianc nation interest un object tasks.",0,train
2969,un gener assembl larg number member state becam co-author initi unanim declar 12 decemb intern day neutrality.,0,train
2970,"neutral turkmenistan appeal condit equitable, respect mutual benefici intern partnership politics, economi environ protection, ensur overal food security, fair effect distribut natur resourc planet, support assist refugees, migrant stateless peopl address mani press issu modern world.",0,train
2971,"turkmenistan’ neutral lofti mission peacemak states’ readi particip solv issu emerg global region dimens peaceful, political, diplomat tool methods.",0,train
2972,"prevent diplomaci signific function integr part turkmenistan’ neutrality. highli symbol unit nation region centr prevent diplomaci central asia establish decis gener assembl support neighbor state secur council member ashgabat, capit citi neutral turkmenistan 2007.",0,train
2976,"known, countri consist work direct initi construct ga pipelin along turkmenistan afghanistan-pakistan-india route, well railroad fiber-opt commun line access territori afghanistan, alreadi enter stage practic implementation. call intern community, busi structures, financi institut becom activ involv work.",0,train
2977,"un remain import prioriti partner country. check step intern arena spirit letter un charter. today, turkmenistan respons declar unshak adher great ideal lie un’ foundat year 75th anniversari unit nations. convinc ideals, valu principl un remain relevant. unit nation remain intern organ univers legitimacy.",0,train
2979,"thank attention!mr.	presid the	unit nation gener assembly,",0,train
2980,"wish reiter deep appreci pronounc secretary-gener high commission human rights, michel bachelet, demand immedi lift unilater crimin coerciv measures, contrari unit nation charter, clear obstacl impos affect countri adequ address covid-19 pandem complianc sustain develop goals.",0,train
2982,"likewise, recent captur american spi war weapon document relat oil electr industry. daili sieg facing, dismantling, denouncing, unveil one one.",0,test
2983,"ask myself: terrorist action qualifi midst extraordinari humanitarian circumst one live covid-19 pandemic? human qualifi it? least say excess imposed, terribl sin seem taken complet north american elites.",0,train
2984,"bolivarian republ venezuela reiter need vindic principl respect sovereignty, self-determin peoples, express unit nation charter, unit us all, whose illeg violat member state organization, motiv ignobl reasons, endang stabil countri latin-caribbean region.",0,test
2986,"wish endors word unit nation secretary-gener antonio guterres, ceasefir cessat conflict world, reiter unrestrict respect full adher purpos principl unit nation charter intern law, particular, respect sovereignty, territori integr non-interfer intern affair states, dialogu among nations, peac resolut disput prohibit threat use forc such.",0,train
2988,"nevertheless, present, countri face experienc wave voluntary, massiv return thousand venezuelan migrants, countri high level covid-19 infections, colombia, ecuador, peru, chile, brazil, motiv differ reasons, import failur covid-19 manag countries. secondly, systemat violat human right venezuelan migrants, anachronist xenophob polici migrant country, includ high level govern countri  discrimination, mistreatment, lack socio-econom conditions, situat semi-slavery, human trafficking, calam migrant suffer clear violat human dignity. reaction world - wonder - say concern venezuela face reprehens facts: complicit silence.",0,train
2990,"sake reconcili compli agreement reach nation dialogu tabl venezuelan polit forces, septemb 2019, seri measur adopt benefit guarante democraci venezuela. recently, 110 citizen belong right-w opposit group pardon prosecut sever crime relat aggress country. decision, seek continu build path toward nation reconciliation, understand peac deserv effort cease, mr. president, commit task.",0,train
2991,"faith complianc provis establish nation constitution, approv referendum venezuelan peopl decemb 1999, 25th democrat elect 20 year held next sunday, decemb 6th, 2020. time, renew legisl power, particip 14,400 candidates, 107 polit organ entir nation ideolog spectrum.",0,train
2993,"even so, govern washington, led peopl collaps pandem — which, way, hold presidenti elect next november, blatant violat intern law, illeg impos new unilater coerciv measur venezuelan democrat institutions, case, elector power, tri interfer conduct parliamentari elect provid constitution. why, bolivarian republ venezuela reiter need vindic principl respect sovereignti self determin peoples, express unit nation charter, whose illeg violat member state organ intend lead venezuela violenc conflict. allow it. demand respect. venezuelan path peace, democracy, freedom, vote, particip protagon people. been, be.",0,train
2994,"author world,",0,train
2995,"venezuela standing. histor dignity, peace. readi new challeng  readi new victories. bid farewell, wish union, peac cooper whole world.",0,test
2996,"thank much.your excel volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly,",0,train
2997,"excel antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations,",0,test
2998,"would like congratul excel volkan bozkir upon elect presid 75th unit nation gener assembly. fulli confid experienc abl leadership, session success.",0,test
2999,"let also voic appreci import contribut excel tijjani muhammad-bande, presid 74th session unit nation gener assembly, secretary-gener antonio guterr made despit tremend challeng pose covid-19 pandemic.",0,train
3000,celebr 75th anniversari unit nation enter third decad 21st centuri extraordinari circumstances.,0,train
3001,"first time history, leader member state unabl gather unga gener debat . this, however, diminish resolv abil deliber seek solut issu common concern.",0,train
3002,"echo secretary-general’ assess face formid challeng sinc birth un, particular, impact covid-19 pandem economy, society, polit and, all, human life.",0,train
3003,"backdrop, welcom theme session: “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism— confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. allow share thought along line.",0,train
3007,"seventy-f year ago, 2 septemb 1945, presid ho chi minh deliv declar independ proclaim birth democrat republ viet nam  socialist republ viet nam . sinc earli days, presid ho chi minh, multipl occasions, sent letter found member un, express viet nam’ desir becom member organization. 1977 aspir becam reality, long tenaci struggl viet nam win defend nation independence, sovereignti territori integr serv concret contribut worldwid movement peace, democraci social progress — ultim nobl goal un aspires. let take occasion, behalf vietnames people, express deepest gratitud countri intern friend gener support toward past righteou struggl nation independ present nation development.",0,test
3008,"viet nam poor backward countri ravag war, strangl embargo. thirty-f year doi moi reform, viet nam emerg middle-incom develop countri aim high-incom industri countri 2045. fight covid-19, difficulti notwithstanding, viet nam record posit noteworthi outcomes. success contain pandem promot social econom development. intern solidar understand pandem defeat win, viet nam engag cooper experi share mani countries, includ support provid worst affect pandem common intern efforts.",0,train
3010,"non-perman member unit nation secur council term 2020-2021, viet nam promot dialogue, de-escal tension confrontation, fair reason solut region global peac secur issues. champion multilater respect intern law un charter, strengthen relat un region organizations, especi asean.",0,train
3011,"2020 asean chair, viet nam work fellow member state build region peace, friendship cooperation, order realiz vision asean polit cohesive, econom integr social respons community. togeth countri within outsid region, commit mainten promot peace, stability, maritim secur safeti freedom navig east sea  south china sea , accord intern law, particularli 1982 unit nation convent law sea. call concern parti exercis restraint, avoid unilater act would complic situation, settl disput differ peac mean due respect diplomat legal processes.",0,train
3013,thank kind attention.mr. presid ,0,test
3014,"excellencies, head state govern  mr. secretary-gener ",0,train
3015,distinguish deleg ,0,train
3016,great honour deliv address behalf govern peopl republ vanuatu.,0,test
3018,"would also like extend heartfelt gratitud excel tijjani muhammad-bande, outgo presid 74th session outstand stewardship august bodi challeng time.",0,train
3019,global challeng,0,train
3020,"usually, would gather icon gener assembl hall share thought state world share. corridors, meet room side event would abuzz activ leader deleg come together. time uncertainti peril, could benefit gatherings, cannot so.",0,train
3023,"seen sever impact vulner communities, especi women girls, peopl disabilities, chronic health conditions.",0,train
3024,"must unit defeat scourg disease. govern need abl continu reach help famili split kept apart, allevi consequ job loss busi closur continu provid health care enorm strain pandem management, deal drastic plummet revenu sources.",0,train
3026,"worrisom complex global challeng compound time multilater environ sever pressur date. make mistake, need inclus multilateralism. global solidar concert intern cooper forg today make us stronger tackl challeng together. time crisi heighten mutual respons strengthen people’ faith multilater cooper intern institutions. unit nations, univers membership, play central role address share challenges. focus effort strengthen it, weaken it. unit nation compar big boat individu nation occupi individu cabin big boat.",0,train
3027,domest develop challeng,0,train
3028,"small open island economi locat south pacific, vanuatu know well import global solidarity. know experi alway better work together, isolation.",0,train
3030,"spirit came togeth nation juli celebr 40th anniversari polit independence. come togeth decemb mark graduat least develop countri status. amidst uncertainti chaos, special year us. especi view graduat success story. alway warmli embrac solidar ldc group, support afford it. 40th year independ countri readi next phase develop journey. readi make step despit catastroph unleash pandem cyclone, reverber mani year come.",0,train
3031,"proud achievements, mind still long way go achiev sustain develop goals. would rather build effort develop partner graduat now, extend smooth transit period risk slip back ldc categori halt graduat entirely. reason seek support bilateral, region multilater develop trade partner provid full support implement smooth transit strategi prepar vanuatu, particular, prioriti specif measur requir target support extend transitionari period five year  specif intern support measur relat trade, aid trade particip intern forums.",0,train
3034,"build back better also mean longer accept busi usual would like suggest area we, unit nations, focu forg new path collect brighter future.",0,test
3036,"second, climat financ need increas ensur recapit financi instrument green climat fund. again, call process access fund simplifi made easier access order allow small island develop state like vanuatu implement climat chang mitig adapt prioriti reflect variou framework implement includ nation determin contribut  ndc .",0,train
3037,"thirdly, un need find way address de risk measur adopt larg intern bank prevent small island develop state especi set correspond bank relationship domest banks.",0,train
3039,human right decolonis,0,train
3040,"look ahead futur want, must pictur world freedom  one free persecut human right abuses. year, countri celebr 40th anniversari independence, remind strong cultur connect umaenupn umaeneag islands, commonli refer english matthew hunter islands. although integr part vanuatu coloni period, franc regrett unlaw claim own. beyond repres failur complet decolon vanuatu, france’ action imped abil ni-vanuatu peopl perform traditional, cultur religi practic islands. particular concern maintain people’ cultur heritag greatest import ni-vanuatu people, endur long unfortun histori coloni exploitation. although ni-vanuatu consid umaenupn umaeneag sacred, particularli great signific come island tanna, futuna aneiytum. countless generations, indigen peopl island perform sacr ritual them. day, umaenupn umaeneag continu maintain central place religi observ people. look forward return islands, facilit former un special rapporteur right indigen peoples.",0,train
3041,"furthermore, also mind territori continu struggl freedom.",0,train
3042,"region, new caledonia soon face anoth referendum question independence. import remain free, fair transpar continu supervis unit nations.",0,train
3043,"know widespread human right violat happen around us, yet seem world take select approach address these. region, indigen peopl west papua continu suffer human right abuses. last year, leader pacif island forum respect call indonesian govern allow unit nation offic human right commission visit west papua province. date littl progress front. therefor call indonesian govern pleas heed previou call pacif leaders.",0,train
3044,conclus,0,test
3046,ever multilater must defend respond evolv need times. un charter remain moral compass continu remind us common duti serv humanity.,0,test
3047,"thank mr presid god bless all.mr. president,",0,train
3048,ladi gentlemen.,0,train
3049,"gener assembl session year histor unique. commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, gener assembl meet virtual first time ever. unpreced time call innov solut leader remain connect unit fight covid-19 pandem desir secur peac world.",0,train
3050,"celebr un mileston allow samoa reflect journey unit nations. unit nation almost 60 year ago, abli facilit peoples’ aspir sovereign state found democrat principles, christian belief cultur values. upon attain independ januari 1962, join un almost 15 year later felt confid prepar assum role global citizen depend member unit nations.",0,test
3051,"membership firmli root belief sovereign equal member states, ground promis hope justic unit nation offers, irrespect economic, polit militari strength.",0,train
3052,"commit multilater unit nation repres last bastion challeng uncertainti beset world: pandem econom crises, climat chang system discrimination, endem poverti danger threat peac security. need balanc power among un member well respons represent people. would set scene partnership bear promis future.",0,train
3054,"pacif sids, samoa continu particip contribut activ global effort address challeng affect development, secur human right pillar unit nations.",0,train
3058,"futur want, un need?",0,train
3060,"tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding, deadli bush fires, heat wave drought continu take devast countless lives. heighten occurr catastroph climatic-rel disast world attest must act absolut urgenc even wake pandemic. climat procrastin must end window close chanc us stabilis earth’ climate.",0,test
3061,"critic meet unfccc cop26, cbd cop15 2020 un ocean confer postponed. howev equat defer ambiti actions. need uphold pari agreement commit maintain need momentum ambiti climat action.",0,train
3063,"must mobilis leader governments, ngos, privat sector empow youth rural commun fight ongo threat climat chang unit environment degradation. 75th anniversari un point hope gener come rather end due legaci selfishness, denial ignorance. small island state like samoa face brunt impact climat change, countri immun reach climat change.",0,train
3064,"want futur peac societies, free conflict nuclear weapons.",0,train
3066,"condemn intern terror unreservedly. membership disarma non-prolifer conventions, continu urg world without weapon mass destruction, includ total elimin nuclear weapons. contribut peac societi worldwid polic offic serv un peacekeep mission countri requir assistance.",0,train
3067,welcom recent uae- isra ‘abraham accord’ new develop secur peac settlement middl east durabl fair. also commend “secretary-general’ appeal global ceasefire” pandem end plagu war instead fight diseas ravag world.,0,test
3068,mr presid,0,train
3069,"samoa present second voluntari nation review implement sustain develop goal high-level polit forum year. also repres samoa sdg moment event last week. applaud initi take forward decis 2019 sdg summit put us world leader driver’ seat begin decad action, deliv sdg 2030.",0,train
3072,"year, samoa host 84th session un committe right child, histor first. mileston event consist samoa’ ongo effort improv strengthen engag treati parti treati bodies. also ensur effect activ particip engag pacif people, especi children, convent work committee. samoa encourag treati bodi imit crc’ example. also follow close work reform un human right treati bodi system.",0,train
3073,"rule law vital protect offer states, especi weak small, need respect commit alway uphold it. also commit advanc gender equal empower women girls, stipul beij declar platform action. samoa continu look initi partnership eu un “spotlight initiative” support effort elimin form violenc women girls.",0,train
3074,let conclud reflect un need.,0,train
3075,"wit posit outcom reform undertaken far, reassur us un respond effect need divers membership. look forward posit impact un develop system reform promis improv un presenc pacif region establish multi-countri offic northern pacif states. hope enhanc effect un engag reinvigor resid coordin system  expect integr focus deliveri ground, inform prioriti need member states. samoa acknowledg valuabl contribut un multi-countri offic samoa dedic staff continu collabor us pacific, better live improv livelihood option peopl nations.",0,train
3077,"larg ocean state sids, samoa need unit nation produc legal bind instrument conserv sustain use marin biolog divers area beyond nation jurisdict  bbnj . un continu recognis uniqu vulner sid impact climat chang ensur effect implement samoa pathway.",0,test
3078,"commit advanc uniti common good common prosperity, abil lie uniqueness. unit nation becom foremost forum address issu transcend nation boundaries. unit nation place understand uniqu cultures, respect differ belief embrac differ unit build futur want genuin durabl partnership. god bless un family. soifuain name god merci compassionate,",0,train
3079,"excellency, presid unit nation gener assembly,",0,test
3080,"would like outset sincer congratul presid unit nation gener assembl seventy-fifth session wish continu success endeavours. would also like express sincer thank gratitud unit nation secretary-general, antonio guterres, effort lead organ toward play role protect intern peac secur realiz nobl mission. reflect peopl countries, includ republ yemen.",0,train
3081,"unit nations, thankfully, spare effort reach last peac yemen, sought tirelessli address challeng facing, particular humanitarian challenges.",0,train
3082,"honour also sincer congratul great peopl yemen, live countri live abroad, celebr gloriou etern yemeni revolut septemb october. coincid gener debat unit nation gener assembly.",0,train
3089,"intern commun must play role end houthi arrog people’ suffering. must exert effect decis pressur putschist sponsor tehran ensur implement secur council resolut refrain bloodletting, sow destruct give access humanitarian assist yemenis.",0,train
3090,"would also like take opportun speak world shed light suffer patient people, endur tragedi tortur kind amid difficult live condit putschists’ war. thank brothers, friends, organ donor countri effort support. unabl escap blackmail, constraint sieg attempt mitig multifacet suffer yemeni peopl war continues. econom challeng increase, addit obstacl face govern state institut attempt discharg duti provid citizen servic restor normalci liber areas.",0,train
3094,"conclusion, hope session successful, unit nation advanc effect effort support humankind realiz happiness. hope unit nation resolut help us meet major challeng us. wish develop prosper member state populations. also wish happiness, well-b prosper humankind whole.",0,train
3095,"may peac god’ merci bless upon you.presid gener assembly, secretary-general, excellencies, ladi gentlemen, seventy-f year ago, unit nation establish introduc new world order achiev peac world. dawn new era global cooperation, forg aftermath one darkest period histori humankind.",0,train
3096,"1945, world crisis. count devast wrought war, devast plunder. today, throe anoth crisi — coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandemic. build common inclus futur aftermath covid-19, solidar must endure. word nelson mandela: “it human solidarity, concern other, must centr valu live.”",0,train
3099,"secretary-gener antonio guterr deliv 18th nelson mandela annual lectur juli 2020, call nation world forg new social contract new global deal.",0,train
3100,"said must creat equal opportun all, must advanc inclus balanc multilater trade system, debt architectur must reformed, greater access afford credit develop countries.",0,train
3101,call south africa wholli endorse.,0,train
3102,"spirit new global deal, call intern commun intern partner support rollout comprehens stimulu packag africa.",0,train
3103,enabl african countri mitig health impact covid-19 aid us immens task rebuild shatter economies.,0,train
3105,"african union encourag collabor g20, imf, world bank un toward find solut debt sustain develop countries.",0,train
3106,"pandem highlight urgenc must strive meet sustain develop goals, importantli goal 1 — end poverti form everywhere.",0,train
3107,"erad global poverty, alway fall short realis vision founder unit nation .",0,train
3108,"must expand econom opportun people, especi young, women vulner persons.",0,train
3109,must boldli pursu avenu redistribut redress mean advanc share prosperity.,0,train
3110,must deal decis rot corrupt rob peopl opportun servic right.,0,train
3111,"together, must rais level ambit ensur everi man, woman child equal chanc better future.",0,train
3112,"futur free hunger, disease, insecur war.",0,train
3113,"world affirm digniti worth all, regardless race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religi affili social circumstances.",0,test
3115,"countri known well anguish institutionalis racism, south africa support demand swift action racism, whether commit individuals, companies, offici state.",0,train
3116,south africa call unit nation spare effort end prejudic intoler form wherev may found.,0,train
3117,word dr martin luther king jr:,0,test
3118,“injustic anywher threat justic everywhere.”,0,train
3119,"mark 25th anniversari adopt beij platform action, must intensifi effort empow women girls. right women girl full equal particip workplace, polit life decision-making, economy, obtain educ societi whole.",0,train
3120,south africa proud member un’ gener equal campaign prioritis erad gender base violenc femicide.,0,train
3121,"continent level, work finalis adopt au convent violenc women cours year.",0,train
3122,"au member state engag measur promot financi inclusion, preferenti procur preferenti trade agreement women.",0,train
3123,african countri continu effort ‘silenc guns’ conflict resolut peace-building.,0,train
3125,imper collabor institutionalis financ au peacekeep oper address resolved.,0,train
3126,south africa current serv second year elect non-perman member unit nation secur council.,0,train
3128,current composit secur council reflect world live.,0,train
3129,"75th anniversari un repeat call greater represent african countri secur council,and taken urgenc intergovernment negotiations.",0,train
3131,"celebr found organis dedic freedom equality, peopl palestin western sahara continu live occupation.",0,test
3132,repeat call end illeg occup western sahara palestinian people’ right self-determination.,0,test
3133,call lift econom embargo blockad cuba.,0,train
3134,choic work togeth address climat chang crisis.,0,train
3135,"rebuild aftermath pandem opportun place global economi low-carbon, climat resili development path.",0,train
3137,"global recoveri effort must place climat chang adaptation, mitig support centr — line pari agreement multilater environment commitments.",0,train
3138,"founder un stood crossroad 1945, 75 year later.",0,train
3139,answer history’ call craft new order world crisis.,0,test
3140,"today battl fire deadli pandemic, racism prejudice, violence, war extrem and, all, poverti inequality.",0,train
3141,"order seek build must root solidarity, equal uniti purpose.",0,train
3142,coronaviru pandem present us choice.,0,test
3143,choic global cooper envisag un charter pursuit narrow self-interest unilateralism.,0,train
3144,choic toler prejudice.,0,train
3145,choic econom justic grow inequality.,0,test
3146,path choos determin collect destiny.,0,train
3147,"though face daunt prospects, dispos potent force.",0,train
3148,solidar friendship upon unit nation founded.,0,train
3149,"histori faith record global respons worst health emerg century, let said stood act one, provid leadership, gave peopl nation hope courage.",0,train
3150,"best, fitting, legaci 75th session action gave true mean term ‘unit nations’.",0,train
3152,may cooper deepen may solidar endure.,0,train
3153,"let us make sure effort leav woman, child man behind, nation left behind.",0,train
3154,"excel mr. volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl ",0,train
3155,"secretary-gener unit nations, antonio guterr ",0,train
3156,distinguish head state govern ,0,test
3157,honour minist ,0,train
3158,head intergovernment organis ,0,train
3159,distinguish ladi gentlemen.,0,train
3160,let join previou speaker congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir assumpt presid 75th regular session unit nation gener assembly.,0,train
3161,optimist excellency’ wealth knowledg experi diplomat parliamentarian inde serv us well 75th session.,0,train
3162,wish also extend zambia’ sincer appreci excel prof. tijjani muhammad-band abl leadership 74th session.,0,train
3163,"theme session, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action” present us opportun evalu exist multilater approach address challeng affect peoples.",0,train
3165,"circumstances, opportun manifest need maximis compar advantages, well share expertise, innov indigen knowledg utilis better people’ livelihoods. remain confid concert effort uniti purpose, togeth conquer pandem global scale.",0,train
3166,post-coronaviru landscap requir urgent action guarante recoveri lay solid foundat better world.,0,train
3167,"accordingly, zambia support call major intervent as:   debt relief cancel develop member state   ii  enhanc collabor research vaccin cure covid-19   iii  mobilis resourc local intern community.",0,train
3170,"2015, member un pledg leav one behind shift world onto path sustain develop prosper all. commit inde still aliv us.",0,train
3171,"although road us laden challenges, neither waiver, surrend cynic acceler implement 2030 agenda sustain development.",0,train
3172,"part, govern republ zambia, work close key stakehold privat sector civil societi develop nation sdg coordin framework guid implementation, monitor report sdg integr country’ nation develop plan.",0,train
3173,zambia remain support intern effort aim peac resolut conflict advocaci support shown peacekeep missions. zambia remain activ player peacekeep peacebuild oper region.,0,train
3174,"regard, would like urg unit nation remain resolut duti protect vulner persons, redoubl effort bring peac world. bedrock un foundation, espous charter.",0,train
3176,"thank you.your excellency, ambassador volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly,",0,train
3177,"majesties,",0,train
3178,"excellencies, fellow head state government,",0,train
3179,"excellency, mr. antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nations,",0,train
3180,"allow first congratul you, ambassador volkan bozkir elect presid 75 th session gener assembly. zimbabw confid abl stewardship, gener assembl profici address challeng present face organ world.",0,train
3181,"also wish convey sincer gratitud presid 74th session assembly, professor tijjani muhamad-bande, skill execut respons tenure.",0,train
3183,"theme 75th session, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action”, therefor apt appropriate.",0,train
3184,today human crossroad confront complex challeng respect borders.,0,train
3185,multilater increas threat blind pursuit narrow interests. must therefor strengthen intern amiti goodwil well uphold mutual respect observ sovereign equal states.,0,train
3187,"however, administr continu record notabl achiev toward sustain develop leav one behind. macro- econom stabil reform seen reduct budget deficit singl digit, well posit balanc current account, coupl foreign exchang rate price stability.",0,train
3188,"major infrastructur project ongoing, rehabilit construct health servic facilities, water sanit infrastructur well roads, dam bridg across country. invest mining, agriculture, tourism, energi manufactur sector increase.",0,test
3190,"similarly, administr decis entrench constitutionalism, democraci rule law, includ protect properti rights. commit govern cardin principl remain unwavering. spirit line constitut juli year, govern conclud landmark global compens deed, former farm owners. count support goodwil intern commun mobil resourc implement agreement.",0,train
3191,"align law constitut almost complete, new piec legisl continu enact strengthen institutions. raft polit reform benefit gener zimbabwean consolid respect human rights.",0,test
3192,"administr place great import foster nation uniti cohesion. cultur dialogu across sector take root, activ programm auspic homegrown polit actor dialogu  polad , gain momentum.",0,train
3193,"recently, un secretari gener  high commission human right  special rapporteur right food, acknowledg deleteri effect illeg econom sanction country. breach intern law compromis zimbabwe’ capac implement achiev sustain develop especi sdg 2, 3, 8, 9 17. we, therefore, call gener assembl strongli pronounc unilater illeg sanctions.",0,train
3195,"zimbabw welcom call un secretari gener director gener who, dr. tedro ghebreyesus, covid-19 vaccin treat global public good guarante fair distribut mechan ensur equal access.",0,train
3196,"encourag ongo cooper un secretari general, g20 bretton wood institut toward find solut develop countrys’ debt relat issues. world bank intern monetari fund support debt standstil end year, need done.",0,train
3197,"commit partner implement 2030 agenda sustain development, zimbabw welcom launch decad action. spirit, host 6th africa region forum sustain develop victoria fall februari 2020, adopt victoria fall declar decad action sustain develop africa.",0,train
3198,"move forward, believ strengthen public health systems, intern solidar partnership critical.",0,test
3200,"15 year sinc adopt ezulwini consensus, reaffirm sirt declaration. deepli regrett reform secur council implement africa’ posit achieved. cannot continu situat 16 per cent world’ popul voic decis making. seriou indict avow commit multilater basic principl natur justice, fair equity.",0,train
3201,"peace, secur stabil pre-requisit sustain development. achiev inclus process character equal share commit responsibilities. count intern commun strengthen support au-l peac efforts. also look forward greater collabor au un maintain sustain intern peac secur accord chapter viii charter unit nations, particularli ensur effect implement au’ campaign “silenc guns”.",0,train
3202,self-determin independ intrins fundament right enjoy without distinction. call secur council increas effort toward end occup western sahara.,0,train
3203,zimbabw also call upon secretary-gener appoint person envoy western sahara without delay.,0,train
0,"fear insecur seiz people, health system weaken socio-econom fabric total shaken, caus loss million jobs. march 21, first posit case confirm country. first state emerg decreed, citizen alreadi took action.",1,test
0,"presid republic, strict agreement government, took advantag impact covid-19 establish econom recoveri plan, center people, reactiv nation economy, measur short, medium long term. mean stop loss job income.",1,test
0,"despit cruelty, pandem given us opportun increasingli awar import sustain develop goal 2030 agenda.",1,test
0,"global cooper partnerships, region nation levels, crucial build resilient, sustain inclus world.",1,test
0,"also spirit contribut peac stabil region, context challeng state face concern insert region find itself, countri commit process join asean, region block 600 million inhabitants.",1,test
0,disrespect natur caus climat chang neg impact humankind. destruct ecosystem biodivers link new diseas covid-19 illustration.,1,test
0,"thus, timor-lest believ pari agreement climat chang sustain develop goal embodi essenti mean issu road reconstruct countries. develop famili farming, ration plan use natur resources, fight pollut intellig polici protect environment, engag citizen crucial issu must respect life possibl planet.",1,test
0,"activ member unit nations, made contribut reinforc awar sustain develop goals. experi point need state strong institut capabl face challeng threat modern times. convinc intern conflict must resolv negoti dialogue. tool allow promot peac necessari humankind. concern recent increas tension maritim disput south china sea. proudli say first countri use compulsori concili mechanism, advoc unit nation convent law sea. call parti involv resolv differ dialogu negoti order achiev peac solution.",1,test
0,"feel just, call end embargo suffer peopl govern cuba. solidar cuban scientists, doctor health professionals, fight covid-19, deserv respect admiration.",1,test
0,"small island develop states, includ tonga, contribut one percent global greenhous ga emissions, unfortun continu bear brunt climat injustice. result, pacif island countri continu imperil mani tropic cyclon unpreced magnitud destruct nature. recent one tropic cyclon harold april year wreak havoc four pacif island nations, namely, fiji, solomon islands, vanuatu, country, tonga. grappl distress effect covid-19 outbreak.",1,test
0,"2020 mark “year delivery” power sustain develop kingdom attain 50 per cent renew energi penetration, project delay caus global pandemic, sudden halt market suppli chains, led major disrupt tonga’ ndc achiev target.",1,test
0,"tonga continu recogn import ocean-clim nexus, continu note grave concern detriment impact climat chang marin environment.",1,test
0,"fight plastic pollution, worrisom tonga note alarm 12 million tonn plastic wast leak ocean annually. place great interest address threat begin process ban single-us plastics. nation region problem, also global problem, requir global solution.",1,test
0,"cannot overemphas urgenc action protect sustain use world’ ocean, sea marin resources. however, action meaning effect deriv science-bas innov inform data. support proclam unit nation decad ocean scienc sustain develop 2021-2030 provid overarch framework allow ocean scienc support countri sustain develop ocean.",1,test
0,"allow conclud reaffirm commit revit post covid-19 multilater support theme session. multilater compris global solidar cooperation, empathy, inclus resilience, note import protect vulner individuals, address inequ ensur univers access afford covid-19 medic vaccine, build back better, leav one behind.mr. president,",1,test
0,"trinidad tobago join famili nation 1962, year attain independence. small island develop state, continu embrac principl collect secur enshrin charter major safeguard small states, rule law, absenc militari econom power, sustain strength sovereignty. mark 75th anniversari unit nations, states, small large, reason proud achiev umbrella rever organisation, creation roadmap global sustain development, advanc develop intern law promot gender equality.",1,test
0,"throughout 75 year exist unit nations, common thread tapestri collect action recognit global challeng best overcom practic multilater base mutual respect trust. ever time demonstr true spirit global partnership reaffirm rules-bas commitments.",1,test
0,"context, congratul aptli chosen theme 75th session welcom opportun address assembl share perspect “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action.” small nation like well big nation anticip even depend us share care other.",1,test
0,"take opportun convey condol express solidar member state famili lost love one due covid-19 global pandemic. mourn loss hundr thousand person worldwide, covid-19, greatli concern alarm rate diseas continu affect million across globe.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem present existenti threat unmatch proport human health safeti around world. overwhelm health sectors, disturb global trade food suppli chains, crush travel leisur industri well disrupt basic livelihood peopl around world. alarmingli pandem intensifi vulner small economi render us suscept exogen shocks. further, covid-19 threaten revers gains, societi achiev toward attain sustain develop goal  sdg  targets.",1,test
0,"prospect achiev sustain develop hing heavili safeti secur people. global pandem unfortun exacerb threat pose illicit traffick small arm light weapons, piracy, traffick person cybercrimes. given ardent desir free societi effect preval unregul small arm light weapons, trinidad tobago remain fulli commit arm trade treati  att  view indispens address menac illicit arm trade.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem acceler government’ thrust toward digit transform public sector. adjust new normal, quickli adapt utilis remot platform conduct busi instead tradit in-person meetings. optimist greater relianc digit platform result opportun young peopl field relat cyber technolog cyber security.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem coupl signific decreas energi price precipit acceler effort aim diversif economy. respect, alloc resourc increas invest agricultur tourism sector recognis need build resili area incentives, policies, programm public privat partnerships. additionally, engend invest agricultur inevit lead reduct demand certain import foods, preserv limit financi resourc achiev food-secur nation. also continu encourag particip women agri-business, agricultur tourism remain seiz fact women undertak role ensur famili receiv nutrit need healthi sometim breadwinners.",1,test
0,"marin environ resourc remain critic livelihood peopl trinidad tobago, sustain development. govern ocean continu priority. unfortunately, result global pandemic, fourth session intergovernment confer intern legal bind instrument unit nation convent law sea conserv sustain use marin biolog divers area beyond nation jurisdiction, postponed. given critic stage negotiations, trinidad tobago remain hope earli resumption, success complet would redound benefit humankind.",1,test
0,"session coincid seventy-fifth anniversari creation unit nations. opportun review organization’ work explor way develop organ becom effect flexibl order meet aspir peopl world peace, security, democraci development, embodi principl purpos charter unit nations.",1,test
0,"tunisia welcom ceasefir agreement sisterli libya underscor firm commit utmost assist libyan brother reach polit settlement inclus libyan dialogue, unit nation auspices. also call intern commun uphold respons establish secur find sustain comprehens solut variou disput crise region world.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem deepen crise african continent. tunisia stress commit continu work african brother intern partner achiev sustain comprehens develop overcom challeng face together. context, reiter support silenc gun africa. initi ongo effort need greater intern support order african contin free conflict focu construct development.",1,test
0,"terror violent extrem continu repres one seriou threat nation peopl intern peac security. scourg worsen exploit ongo crise activ organ crime certain countri regions. threat target state themselves, social cohes effort develop democracy.",1,test
0,"order prevent loss reput intern organizations, must first review mentality, institut rules.",1,test
0,"must rapidli implement comprehens meaning reforms, start restructur secur council.",1,test
0,call suppli medic equip drug vaccin develop effort made issu competition.,1,test
0,"pandemic, experienc togeth vital element state capacity, effect govern resili are.",1,test
0,"behind turkey’ success stori lie effect govern mechan establish presidenti govern system, high capac develop infrastructur invest area health, qualifi human resources.",1,test
0,"end, polit process initi auspic unit nations, also syrian-own syrian-led, brought success conclusion.",1,test
0,"also respons intern commun stop bloodsh yemen, continu five years, stop humanitarian crisis.",1,test
0,"favor resolv issu iran’ nuclear program take account intern law, diplomaci dialogue.",1,test
0,"armenia, attack azerbaijani territori july, prove biggest obstacl last peac stabil south caucasus.",1,test
0,reason problem exist region today one-sid step taken greec greek cypriot sinc 2003 maximalist demands.,1,test
0,disarma vital import ensur global peac security.,1,test
0,"intern commun must move forward basi equal justic regard, elimin weapon mass destruction.",1,test
0,"pandem escal econom crisi associ also neg effect sustain development, 2030 goals.",1,test
0,"fact, happen pandem shown us sustain develop goal import guid combat kind global crises.",1,test
0,also use transform power digit prepar econom prescript surviv crisis.,1,test
0,plan implement project aim strengthen africa’ capac third turkey-african union partnership summit intend hold turkey next year.,1,test
0,"must cours keep distanc pandemic, must also close rank joint struggl cooper challeng threaten intern community.",1,test
0,"social econom impact pandem felt mani year come. recov long costli process, especi vulnerable. global solidarity, effect intern cooper polit commit critic sustain respons recov build back better.",1,test
0,"covid-19 significantli disrupt economi societi right across world. indeed, covid-19 reshap contour normal way things, place us “new normal”. therefore, must think outsid box, must also work outsid box. un member must work collabor togeth build back better countri economi that:",1,test
0, v 	build resili futur crisi,1,test
0,digit economi essenti support transform sustain development. mani countri yet realis full econom potenti digit economi mani way ensur develop self-suffici peopl levels.,1,test
0,centr develop people. substanti advanc human capac need improv educ healthcare. result product societi higher incom better standard living.,1,test
0,"covid-19 immedi crisis, climat chang remain singl greatest threat livelihoods, secur wellb pacif peopl long run. pacif island forum leader last year reaffirm commit kainaki ii declar urgent climat chang action now. share prosper secur blue pacif safe exist intern commun pursu effort limit global warm 1.5 °c.",1,test
0,"decarbon remain central effort combat impact climat change, help build resili small vulner economi societies. need clean afford energi energi efficiency, renew electrification. pari agreement’ 2020 commit updat ndc develop low emiss develop strategi remain critical. synerg covid19 recoveri effort acceler transit decarbon build resilience.",1,test
0,"covid-19 expos vulner food secur systems. atol nation like tuvalu, agricultur difficult rise sea levels. last years, assist develop partners, invest new agricultur food product system resili climat chang sea level rise. acknowledg recent work peacebuild fund area would encourag assist scale initi develop food secur atol nations.",1,test
0,"govern enhanc interconnected manag build 3,500 kilometr road numer larg bridg past five years. moreover, upgrad major port transport facilities, rang standard-gaug railway run central tanzania restor railway transport facil eastern corridor. mileston includ manufactur refurbish ship improv water transport connect area surround bodi water. govern also overseen procur 11 aeroplanes, eight oper commercially.",1,test
0,"swearing-in june excel mr. evarist ndayishimiye, presid republ burundi, culmin long-await presidenti elect burundi. elections’ peac conclusion, tanzania urg intern commun assist new govern provid much need aid econom social develop citizen burundi region large.",1,test
0,"“in addit incalcul health human toll, pandem left indel mark global economy. across world, countri suffer sudden shock economies. beyond immedi challeng current crisis, need greater focu recoveri epidemic. impact covid-19 mitig act immedi collectively. applaud effort variou intern region organizations, unit nations, world health organization, movement non-align countries, african union  au , commonwealth, intergovernment author develop  igad  east african commun  eac , among others, deal pandemic.",1,test
0,"“climat chang remain one greatest challeng time. continu wit climate-chang disast across globe result consider loss life property. clear countri immun disasters. address climat chang call effect bold multilater action us. uganda, example, continu experi prolong droughts, melt ice cap highest mountain, mount rwenzori, floods, errat rainfal landslides. recent experienc impact intens prolong rainfal increas level major bodi water caus flood sever area country. govern continu invest climat adapt mitig measur includ expand access consumpt clean energi order enhanc production, well increas forest wetland cover, line ambiti nation determin contributions. invest enabl us halt, reduc revers environment degrad advers effect climat change, well improv sustain use natur resourc inclus econom growth.",1,test
0,"“the gener assembl approv quadrenni comprehens polici review oper activ develop unit nation system reposit unit nation develop system 2016 2018 respectively, order make develop system strategic, accountable, transparent, collaborative, efficient, effect results-oriented. approv aros need reposit unit nation oper activ develop support countri nation effort implement 2030 agenda sustain development. commend secretary-gener progress made far implement approv reform consult member states. uganda work within group 77  g-77  china next cycl quadrenni comprehens polici review ensur receiv appropri polici guidanc next four year support countri acceler implement 2030 agenda jurisdictions.",1,test
0,"“uganda applaud secretary-gener time appeal global ceasefir covid-19 pandemic. doubt pandem global impact aspect lives, social, econom political, almost countri across globe. arm conflict war continued, pandem made worsen situat even dire. africa’ continent subregion organ continu play critic role conflict prevent crisi continent. welcom direct partnership engag unit nation african union peac secur matters, acceler recent years. experi shown wherev intern community, unit nation particular, support region efforts, successful. encourag strengthen partnership.",1,test
0,"undoubtedly, last year prove ukrain realli strive peace. manag unblock dialogue, resum meet normandi format leaders, made substanti progress mutual releas detain persons. start 27 july, comprehens ceasefir place, which, despit attempt disrupt it, still give hope achiev sustain ceasefire. badli need keep move toward genuin peace.",1,test
0,"next step way becom withdraw unlaw militari format armament occupi territories, return control state border, and, finally, restor territori integr ukrain within intern recogn borders.",1,test
0,"addition, avail opportun want invit friend particip establish intern crimea platform concert action protect right crimean de occupi peninsula.",1,test
0,75th anniversari un foundat becom impetu transform organ dynam effici body.,1,test
0,"scale current pandem distress consequ — loss life impact health mani peopl — focu attent must seek solut peoples, particular vulner risk affect pandem result impact health, well way mean life.",1,test
0,"would also like call intern commun ensur current pandem result fail fulli honour commit made multilater level. must avoid fall prey nation protectionism, would way harm intern relat intern trade disrupt suppli chain distribut medic suppli necessari emerg health crisis.",1,test
0,"govern also made necessari commit educ levels, educ essenti full actual human be ensur citizen equal opportunities.",1,test
0,"uruguay develop nation climat chang respons plan, address risk prevention, mitig adaptation.",1,test
0,"also welcom hold summit biodiversity, take place next week. express commit promot strategi practic sustain use biolog divers natur resources, develop mechan improv manag use.",1,test
0,"peac environ indispens address pandemic, must recommit dialogue, peac disput resolut rule law order allevi suffer bring hope vulner populations.",1,test
0,"mr. president, futur want peopl one move ahead common support solut challeng emerge, order achiev sustain inclus development, right respect opportun offer develop everi citizen world, leav one behind.",1,test
0,"particularli appreci organization’ effort includ civil societi privat sector, part solut economic, social environment issu arise, inclus sustain develop requir particip entir society.",1,test
0,"militari increas substanti size. spent $2.5 trillion last 4 year military. power militari anywher world, it’ even close.",1,test
0,"take care citizens, find true basi cooperation.",1,test
0,calam vividli reveal humanity’ vulnerability.,1,test
0,"current threaten complex situat prove state peopl world interconnect regular dialogue, trust close cooper among us extrem important.",1,test
0,"sinc earli day covid-19 outbreak uzbekistan, focus effort resourc contain danger diseas and, importantly, save people’ lives.",1,test
0,"social protect health system cardin strengthen mitig neg effect pandem  target support provid population, sector economi businesses.",1,test
0,"country, half popul young, extens work underway ensur everi young person take worthi place societi demonstr potential.",1,test
0,"addition, propos adopt special resolut unit nation gener assembl enhanc role parliament achiev sustain develop goal ensur human rights.",1,test
0,"well-known, ancient cultur rich spiritu heritag region global importance.",1,test
0,express hope talk serv bring peac stabil long-suff land afghanistan.,1,test
0,togeth close cooper realiz dream aspir afghan people.,1,test
0,"end, propos establish perman un commiss afghanistan would address concern long-suff afghan people.",1,test
0,"conclusion, would like emphas yet anoth point: continu unrest variou part world, grow conflict violence, environment disast modern threat exacerb global problem miseri poverty.",1,test
0,"pandemic, indeed, call us “to seiz time trial time choosing, time choos matter pass away, time separ necessari not”. repres concret opportun conversion, transformation, rethink way life econom social systems, widen gap rich poor base unjust distribut resources. hand, pandem occas “defens retreat” greater individu elitism.",1,test
0,"current crisi also demonstr solidar must empti word promise. also shown us import avoid everi temptat exceed natur limits. “we freedom need limit direct technolog  put servic anoth type progress, one healthier, human, social, integral”. also need taken care consider discuss complex issu artifici intellig  ai .",1,test
0,"origin “throwaway culture” gross lack respect human dignity, promot ideolog reduct understand human person, denial univers fundament human rights, crave absolut power control widespread today’ society. let us name is: attack human itself.",1,test
0,"numer signific intern effort respond crise begin great promis — think two global compact refuge migrat — yet mani lack necessari polit support prove successful. other fail individu state shirk respons commitments. same, current crisi offer opportun unit nation help build fratern compassion society.",1,test
0,"includ reconsid role econom financi institutions, like bretton-woods, must respond rapidli grow inequ super-rich perman poor. econom model encourag subsidiarity, support econom develop local level invest educ infrastructur benefit local communities, lay foundat econom success also renew larger commun nation. would renew appeal",1,test
0,"think alarm situat amazon indigen peoples. see environment crisi insepar link social crisis, care environ call integr approach combat poverti exclusion.",1,test
0,"cannot fail acknowledg devast effect covid-19 crisi children, includ unaccompani young migrant refugees. violenc children, includ horribl scourg child abus pornography, also dramat increased.",1,test
0,"first teacher everi child mother father, family, univers declar human right describ “natur fundament group unit society”. often, famili victim form ideolog coloni weaken end produc mani members, especi vulnerable, young elderly, feel orphan lack roots. breakdown famili reflect social fragment hinder effort confront common enemies. time reassess recommit achiev goals.",1,test
0,"need break present climat distrust. present, wit eros multilateralism, seriou light develop new form militari technology, lethal autonom weapon system  law  irrevers alter natur warfare, detach human agency.",1,test
0,"nuclear deterrence, particular, creat etho fear base threat mutual annihil  way, end poison relationship peopl obstruct dialogue. import support princip intern legal instrument nuclear disarmament, nonprolifer prohibition. holi see trust forthcom review confer parti treati non-prolifer nuclear weapon  npt  result concret action accord joint intent “to achiev earliest possibl date cessat nuclear arm race undertak effect measur direct nuclear disarmament”.",1,test
0,"venezuela recogn that, 75 years, unit nation organ given great contribut humanity. however, demand effort preserv achievements, advanc new objectives. insist need strengthen south-south cooper creat altern mechan financ technic support back initi prioriti defin peopl achiev sustain develop goals. time urgent task everi day counts. “the south also thinks, south also matters, south also exists”, poet benedetti said, centenni presence.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem come chang realiti prioriti humanity, consequ human life. pandem made evid inequ world exacerb them. unfortunately, conting measur face pandem increas social econom gap within countries. intern community, whole, must provid global coordin respons support nation need, help creat condit stronger economi inclus societies.",1,test
0,"must first identifi driver turmoil. five sources, afghanistan deal simultaneously. covid-19 pandem expos vulnerabilities, point we, global community, could longer afford ignor them. afghan fortun contain first wave pandem close government, busi societ cooperation, minim input un agencies, pandem expos gap system must addressed.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem done us world war ii gener us — immens human cost phenomenon global impact then, now, forc pay attent take unpreced action.",1,test
0,"face vulner exacerb pandemic, anoth driver inequ unemploy upend world — 4th industri revolution. digit age upon us, challeng us adapt way consume, way work, way govern.",1,test
0,"afghanistan, experi adapt digit revolut wield sourc econom opportun overwhelmingli young population, well way strengthen system govern rule law. look far ahead knowledg tri replic 19th 20th centuri model now, becom irrelev soon stabil them.",1,test
0,"new kind industri revolution, combin pandemic, present challeng plan execut gathering, yet unga leadership manag creativ transform experi one efficient, effective, conveni far less risky. want congratul excel volkan bozkir assum presid 75th session unga, also success overcom particular challeng host massiv gather global leader pandemic.",1,test
0,"violenc warfar also evolved, evolut afghan wit suffer real time. living, dying, insid 5th wave global terrorism, global terrorist network close link global crimin networks, make warfar total unconvent peace-build even challenge.",1,test
0,"state society, demonstr commitment, compass courag take hard decis start direct peac talk taliban. won’t enough. sustain afghanistan, must get root terror problem blight region address global phenomenon, threat, is.",1,test
0,"untold sorrow afghan people, particularli women children, last 40 years, serv remind relev un charter, also unfulfil promise, “maintain intern peac security.”",1,test
0,climat chang effect anoth type violenc suffer people. afghanistan 17th worst affect countri world.,1,test
0,"last month, hundr afghan kill injured, entir home livelihood destroyed, massiv flood water rip provinc parwan 13 provinces. two year before, extrem — drought — led us nation-wid wheat shortag upend livelihood major popul reli job agricultur put food tables.",1,test
0,drought flood season occurr afghanistan. need region solut base intern model address problem climat change.,1,test
0,"sign memoranda understand fortescu metal group chang afghanistan lead green industry, energi intend produc 20,000 megawatt hydro use produc zero emiss steel product estim $1 trillion miner resources.",1,test
0,"also discuss corpor turn 70,000 megawatt wind, 220,000 megawatt solar renew energy, therebi becom hub renew energi green industri region.",1,test
0,"fifth driver turmoil culmin first four — unpreced explos inequ continu perpetu state turmoil, — unless — take action. afghanistan focus human capit human secur creat equal opportun fellow citizen societ stabil people.",1,test
0,"come back first driver — covid-19 pandem — scope scale impact forc us see four drivers, worsen highlight pandemic.",1,test
0,pandem taught us urgent lesson: longer ignor drivers.,1,test
0,"truth, extrem level uncertainti make futur difficult predict, tri address question answer would simple.",1,test
0,"shape share futur direct fulfil promis us take unpreced act cooper coordin action level global village’ community, economi governance.",1,test
0,"time, invest strengthen state govern structur creat environ conduc growth. mean continu combat system corruption, improv public financi manag systems, strengthen provinci district level governance.",1,test
0,"talks, afghan peopl clear urgent priority: ceasefire. urgent end violenc will, anyth else, give us chanc progress.",1,test
0,"would like take opportun call everi member gener assembl perman member secur council help us achiev end-stat sovereign, unit democrat afghanistan, peac region, capabl preserv expand gain last 19 years. democrat stabl prosper afghanistan exampl collect overcom turmoil uncertainti defin world today. thank you.hi excel antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nations.",1,test
0,"today, despit current circumst aris covid-19 pandemic, impos us restrict movement procedur appropri juncture, possibl commun amongst virtual feel togeth thank almost unlimit possibl brought new technolog servic mankind.",1,test
0,"also would like highlight exemplari manner tackl problem result covid-19 pandemic, whose effect consequ would taken dramat proport experienc now, world health organ special agenc unit nation system act quickli pass recommend greatli help control spread disease.",1,test
0,pandem come show global level weak health structur respond problem high magnitud severity.,1,test
0,"despit obviou evidence, joint efforts, collabor cooper amongst nation exchang among special scientif institut manag face problem previous fulli unknown, oblig us seek prompt respons order allevi effect disease.",1,test
0,"global health problem paralyz momentum built recoveri world economy, econom crisi start 2008, alreadi send encourag signal recoveri special develop countries, case angola.",1,test
0,"hope start yield posit result follow endeavour domest economi reform, conduct context appli harsh measures, tough impact live people, come true soon due current constraint disrupt product chain, affect price main export commodities, paralys servic vital sector economy, give rise high unemploy rate alarm social situation.",1,test
0,"one singl resourc financ product sector recoveri diverted, given current context, serv need biosafeti necess urgent epidemiolog natur brought pandemic.",1,test
0,"goal may achiev develop countri mobil establish fund invest aid africa use investor interest busi african continent, may produc good servic local consumpt export.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem come prove act coordination, respons share effici manner thu satisfactori result achieved.",1,test
0,"reason, along journey unit nation alway advoc multilater resolv intric problem humanity.",1,test
0,"unit nations, within current world context, portray realiti total differ one basi establishment, seek reflect within intern structur characterist geopolit realiti nowaday order render organ abl safeguard balanc global interests.",1,test
0,"regard, reiter urgent need reform organ achiev un secur council attend better represent peoples, nation continents.",1,test
0,"75 year exist unit nations, plenti reason proud of. result global cooper framework un, manag prevent major militari conflagr reduc human suffering.",1,test
0,current crisi threaten slow even revers progress new sustain develop goals.,1,test
0,"respond determin fast world recovers, shape abil achiev sustain develop goal manag global challenges.",1,test
0,"pandem shed new light humanity’ need strengthen multilater system, base principl ideal enshrin un charter intern law.",1,test
0,"regard, strongli support vision ambiti reform agenda un secretary-general. albania convinc reform unit nation deliv integr system-wid approach achiev 2030 agenda make sure one left behind.",1,test
0,"order flatten curv pandem prevent global econom crisis, must react collectively, spirit uniti solidarity.",1,test
0,"2019 difficult year albania. struck two power earthquakes, left 50 peopl dead billion us dollar damages.",1,test
0,"albania strive make full use econom potential, align nation prioriti object 2030 sustain develop agenda nation strategi develop integration.",1,test
0,"need pay special attent need vulner groups, especi young people. econom effect result pandem lead increas number unemploy young people, prompt flee countri origin.",1,test
0,"albania’ osc chairmanship 2020 tangibl demonstr steadfast commit promot intern peac secur dialogu multilater co-operation, time rais tension polarisation.",1,test
0,"order continu activ particip creat stabil security, albania present candidatur elect non-perman member secur council, mandat 2022-2023.",1,test
0,"last year, organ albania region conference, “religion instrument peace”, collabor us state department, aim advanc religion freedom fundament human right issue.",1,test
0,it’ messag serv power antidot rise intoler violent extrem undermin peac security.,1,test
0,"renew commit expect deliv concret result key benchmark relat democrat function rule law, reflect crossparti polit consensu serv overal stabil country.",1,test
0,"region tragic histori dictatorships, oppress militari conflicts. despit difficult legaci still haunt region, signific progress made past two decades, larg thank cycl reform trigger ongo nato european union enlarg processes.",1,test
0,"encourag welcom fact albanian factor continu support european euro atlant cours throughout region, strengthen time region cooper ownership ambiti projects.",1,test
0,remain hope agreement inject new dynam relat kosova serbia.,1,test
0,kosova establish solid constitut legal framework provid unpreced protect right minor cultur heritage. fulli line often exce relev european acqui term human right protection.,1,test
0,"membership kosova intern organizations, unit nation included, would benefit kosova, also whole intern community.",1,test
0,"conclud mr. president, would like reaffirm albania’ commit support reform reinvigor rule-bas order, unit nation centre. we, member states, must part uphold strengthen multilater system order benefit it.",1,test
0,"would like start intervent congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir elect presid gener assembly, would also like congratul secretari general, antonio guterres, secretariat unit nations. celebr 75th anniversari unit nation great assembl peopl world, creat primari object construct multilater way implement system valu code conduct base cooperation, undoubtedli rememb year sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook pillar societies.",1,test
0,"magnitud public health emerg requir unpreced mobil resources. govern institutions, civil social organ invest great energi fight covid-19. however, first respons heroic effort come health professionals. therefore, would like take advantag gener debat unit nation vindic work. demonstr profession value, also shown immens human quality, because, unfortunately, viru often depriv us contact accompani person near us, necessari moment difficulty. however, spite all, men women health servic provid constant support peopl famili live adversity.",1,test
0,"1945, unit nation emerg ruin devast war history. organ led way tackl univers challeng creat institut framework made signific progress area import human rights, poverti eradication, consolid democrat institutions, fight climat chang promot sustain development, also provid protect vulner arm conflicts. thank multilateralism, unit nation often abl reach area tradit diplomaci not. even time present one, pandem expos weak states, unit nation continu see cooper antidot confrontation. perspective, would like highlight work organ carri out, especi secretari general, within context fragil present situat which, unfortunately, share mani common point scenario led found unit nations.",1,test
0,"unit nation continu broaden sphere action recent years: rang improv people’ live condit development-rel matter becom key element multilater agenda. develop view formula erad poverty, fight inequ injustice, initi climat action. clear pandem worsen situation, must also serv incent push paradigm change, govern andorra convinc right moment build better greener world, nation level, approach sustain transvers manner main line polit action, intern level within area cooper  world must sustain ceas be.",1,test
0,"requir involv everybody, public authorities, civil societi privat initiative, scienc knowledge, inspir sustain develop goal principl human right lie core actions.",1,test
0,"mani situat need consid observ transvers manner  gender equality, attent children young people, particip protect elderly, non-discrimin peopl disabilities. realiti present, uncertainti futur experi past shown us need teach valu invest effort ensur school abl appli meet increasingli greater demands. success societi base growth human capit educ training.",1,test
0,"fight climat chang continu one prioriti andorra, countri special awar natur environment. year signific year climat action plan new scenario understanding, mark ratif new object reduc greenhous ga emissions, within framework climat chang confer cop26 held unit kingdom. andorra approv pari agreement 2015 without doubt hesitation, pass law energi transit fight climat chang reflect contribut pari agreement. indeed, one first countri establish plan reduc emiss experi work toward becom sustain countri sinc awar must preserv resourc natur environ futur generations. reason, spare effort fight climat change.",1,test
0,"anoth action remov doubt may convict commit fight climat chang area role play head pro tempor secretariat ibero-american summit period two year motto “innov sustain development- object 2030”. joint declar adopt environ minist environ confer 16 septemb last, one high point presid allow us build environment agenda among 22 member state ibero-american conference.",1,test
0,"crisi trigger covid-19 profound impact daili live mani families, countri exception. sens respons duti feel toward fellow citizen led govern andorra review road map envisag legislature, develop action plan base convict decis make must increas potenti countri move toward develop preserv sustain medium long term.",1,test
0,"realist plan build strength country, health social protect system, educ model country’ high level public safety, histor uniqueness, cultur divers privileg natur environment. however, plan also identifies, one would expect, aspect need improv base belief sustain — understood transvers sens — main guid line polit action. reason, develop roadmap awar impact action taken moment effect endur way beyond present time. action line sustain develop goals, govern institut must main catalyst chang promot unit nations.",1,test
0,"sars-cov-2 pandem forc us unimagin situations. world brought sudden halt week first victim covid-19 announced: schools, factories, offices, roads, stadia etc. felt silent order fight invis enemi also allow us see world would never again.",1,test
0,"seen digit take giant step matter weeks, also seen telework becom norm educ non-presential, oblig million peopl becom technolog literate. also seen crack appear process  reconsid valu system care elderly, main victim viru  must rememb telework bring better work-lif balanc home space appropri adequ  seen distanc learn highlight deep inequ among famili cannot access services, suffer overexposur inform which, apart reduc human contact, sometim creat manipul unsaf environments.",1,test
0,"also hope, because, ever, seen flourish valu solidar empathy, sincer recognit health healthcar professionals, sens civil respons popul favor common interest, well increas ecolog awareness.",1,test
0,"today, year commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, andorra want add voic support organ repres essenc multilateralism, recent year manag preserv initi spirit evolv time. now, ever, must appeal recogn spirit vision un’ founders, abl overcom obstacl terribl war well differ opinion order preserv mankind.",1,test
0,"need make progress mani areas. alreadi know want go, get alway complic part. want recogn work carri secretari gener reform develop system, contribut state made resolut propos improvement. however, undeni time lose, must build knowledg procedur work expert effici want respond commit charter obtain result peac security, right development.",1,test
0,"coincid 75th anniversari unit nations, world wit critic turn point follow spread coronavirus. celebr achiev made sinc foundat unit nations, must reflect natur challeng face. today, conflict becom danger regionalized. also grow influenc extremist groups. threat cyberwar rise use sophist weapon attack strateg area increasing.",1,test
0,"despit mount global threats, uae believ transform unpreced challeng great opportun unit effort build intern institut capabl cope current emerg challenges. past month proven confront intern threat requir take collect action wise leadership forg coordin intern respons address implic threats.",1,test
0,"solv crises, especi arab region, requir take unifi intern position. posit reject violat sovereignti state interfer intern affairs. posit seek un led polit solut address threat pose terrorist group houthis, da’esh, al-qaeda muslim brotherhood. context, unit arab emir reiter support secretary-general’ appeal global ceasefire.",1,test
0,"warn stem realiti experience. tension yemen, syria, libya, iraq state relat blatant interfer arab affair made state incit strife discord, histor delus restor domin coloni rule arab region horn africa. result brutal wars. context, recal firm posit reject region interfer arab affairs, request full respect sovereignty, fulli consist intern law intern norms.",1,test
0,"although illeg interfer destabil yemen’ secur years, strongli believ stabil yemen restored, especi within current environ could lead complet ceasefir perman polit solut auspic unit nations. regard, affirm decis pursu polit process yemen yemeni decision. countri also commend tremend effort made brotherli kingdom saudi arabia. reiter uae’ support riyadh agreement call unit yemeni posit order reach sustain solution.",1,test
0,"similar context, countri express deep concern regard turkey’ militari interfer libya, alarm part region interfer arab affair exacerb humanitarian crisis, undermin effort reach peac solution, destabil entir region. therefore, countri support repeat call immedi ceasefir libya call upon parti commit polit process auspic unit nation build outcom berlin conference. sinc outbreak conflict libya, countri call peac polit solut crisi order achiev last secur stability.",1,test
0,"likewise, countri call stop foreign interfer syrian affair warn seriou implic syria’ uniti arab security. also reiter polit process way end syrian crisi protect secur people.",1,test
0,"also express concern regard vulner conflict area coronaviru pandemic, area least prepar address danger.",1,test
0,"countri also continu call peac settlement disputes. context, reiter uae’ firm posit legitim right sovereignti three islands: greater tunb, lesser tunb, abu musa, occupi iran flagrant violat intern law un charter, total disregard histor record clearli affirm uae’ ownership island island arab rule sinc ancient times. therefore, uae give demand iran return island right owners. countri call iran peac resolv issu direct negotiations, intern court justice. however, iran answer calls.",1,test
0,"look forward see iran respect principl good-neighborli abid secur council resolut stop develop ballist missil program ceas arm terrorist groups. context, countri particularli concern restrict impos iran nuclear agreement soon due expire. sinc nuclear agreement achiev desir outcome, hope experi use achiev comprehens agreement address concern state region make key partner draft term agreement.",1,test
0,"pandem reveal us fragil recreat need build bridg people, nation regions.",1,test
0,"spirit solidar govern priorit sinc arriv pandem poverty, one safe, everyon safe.",1,test
0,"why, start pandemic, argentina focus primarili protect live care vulnerable, implement seri emerg measur prevent collaps health system mitig immedi impact pandemic.",1,test
0,"also essenti consid conduct cooperation, adopt multidimension approach goe beyond per capita incom determin elig criteria offici develop assist  oda . 60 per cent poor live middle-incom countries. serv countries, demonstr solidar understand real progress built everyon involved, make littl steadi progress achiev sustain develop goals.",1,test
0,"need unit nation 4.0, foundat valu intact vision incorpor immens technolog chang way, make human, democrat social inclusive.",1,test
0,"overcom pandem achiev goal 2030 agenda requir economic, industri social polici aim bring structur chang economies.",1,test
0,firmli believ collect commit need achiev swift effect implement pari agreement.,1,test
0,"turbul global environment, assum toxic irrespons extern debt specul purpos mean anoth wave delay underdevelopment.",1,test
0,"argentina manag seal major deal almost privat extern creditors, becom one first countri meet challeng debt restructur pandemic.",1,test
0,"support intern community, includ sever countri repres here, privat sector, civil societi intern academ community, key restor public debt sustainability.",1,test
0,"urg intern commun continu seek new multilater approach facilit orderli debt restructur ensur increas access public policy, address pandem sustain inclus growth.",1,test
0,"promot protect human right core polici argentin state sinc 1983. decis result ratif grant constitut statu exist intern human right instruments, well activ particip region intern levels.",1,test
0,post-pandem world exacerb sever refuge displac person crisi face planet region. answer promot guarante human right migrants.,1,test
0,global crisi caus covid-19 also highlight sever gender inequality.,1,test
0,"govern commit issu why, first time history, creat ministri women, gender diversity, well nation cabinet, ensur gender polici cross-cutting.",1,test
0,"twenty-six year bomb argentin israelit mutual associ headquarters, wish maintain polici initi 2003 continu thereafter. call author islam republ iran cooper argentin judici author order make progress investig attack.",1,test
0,"year mark fifty-fifth anniversari resolut 2065  xx , first adopt organ question malvina islands, call argentina unit kingdom hold negoti order reach peac definit solut sovereignti dispute.",1,test
0,"unit kingdom persist attitud ignor call resum negoti territori disput aggrav disput call illeg unilater exploit renew non-renew natur resourc area, run counter gener assembl resolut 31 49.",1,test
0,"unit kingdom also insist unjustifi excess militari presenc islands, bring tension region character peac intern cooperation.",1,test
0,"indeed, pandem unpreced impact aspect human life. address global challeng requir recommit state effect multilater intern cooper central role unit nations.",1,test
0,"juli escalation, call intern commun mostli respect ceasefire, dialogu restraint. turkey, however, much line destabil polici power project neighbor regions, includ east mediterranean, north africa middl east, spare effort fuel tension south caucasus, well. unilater support azerbaijan expans militari presenc there, turkey undermin effort peac stabil region, well effort osc minsk group co-chair end. turkey directli threaten armenia put show aggress militari postur way provoc joint militari drill azerbaijan close vicin armenia nagorno karabakh. turkey build polici region tradit kinship, exploit conflicts, justif armenian genocid impun crime. turkey pose secur threat armenia region. context, armenia continu activ engag region intern effort maintain peac secur dialogu cooperation.",1,test
0,"prevent genocid unwav prioriti armenia. nation endur horrors, moral respons human preserv memori victim genocid contribut effort intern commun prevent recurr horrend crimes.",1,test
0,covid-19 pandem brought realiz directli face nations.,1,test
0,"narrow nationalist polici undermin intern cooper make matter worse, better.",1,test
0,"nation, howev wealthy, surviv market dwindl sourc suppli decline.",1,test
0,"uniti human needs, requir function multilater system respect democrat principl sovereignty, particip consent  reject bulli doctrin exclusion, imposit abus econom sanctions.",1,test
0,"econom commiss latin america caribbean  eclac  forecast gross domest product  gdp  caribbean contract 6.9 per cent 2020, effect covid-19 economies.",1,test
0,"country, highli depend tourism, closur borders, cessat cruis tourism limit aviation, effect devast economi overnight, result seriou loss revenues, also sudden signific loss jobs.",1,test
0,"govern expend enorm resources, spend high as, 8 per cent gdp, mitig impact public health crisis, amid extraordinari declin revenu foreign exchange.",1,test
0,"economi weakens, insuffici respons intern commun debt reschedul access concession financing, unemploy poverti growing.",1,test
0,"presently, one activ laboratori confirm case covid-19 infection, despit re-open border june 1st, daili commerci flight north america europe, attempt earn revenu vital tourism sector protect live livelihoods.",1,test
0,"situat continu without appropri respons intern community, mani countries, like mine, unabl pay exist debt qualifi new borrowings.",1,test
0,"even if, countri end imf programm give short-term relief, unless suspens debt payments, debt forgiv debt rescheduling, recov economi  certainli achiev un sustain develop goals, debt stock enlarg compound interest result unpaid debts.",1,test
0,"“the leader g20 favour multilater organ make loan favour interest rate allevi debt countri highli indebted, defer forgiv it. occur, payment imposs fiscal space compromised. except measur requir confront unpreced crisis. progress without intern cooper solidarity.”",1,test
0,statement endors entirety. socio-econom sustain region compromis without proactiv debt suspens restructur ultim debt relief.,1,test
0,"social distancing, mask use sanit measures, deni viru opportun move amongst us.",1,test
0,invest hospit medic suppli ensur viru overwhelm health system.,1,test
0,"approach, though tested, save live livelihood protected, best abl to, vulnerable.",1,test
0,australia support who’ effort develop global framework vaccin therapeut alloc fairly.,1,test
0,"liber democracy, we’r also commit promot univers valu like human rights, gender equal rule law.",1,test
0,"sinc join un 1955 austria proud honour contribut areas. whether 60 year peacekeeping, member — current presid — human right council. austria continu part readi assum responsibilities. particular reason, candid un secur council 2027-2028 hope support.",1,test
0,speech would complet without strong appeal get rid weapon all. pose existenti threat life planet caus tremend human suffering.,1,test
0,"yes, politicians, duti protect citizens. but, viru distinguish unilateralist multilateralists. covid-19 one safe, everyon safe. we, therefore, avoid form “vaccin nationalism”. develop vaccin becom new race moon.",1,test
0,"2030 agenda sustain develop goal stipul that, “there sustain develop without peac peac without sustain development”. achiev sustain intern peac security, must put end occupation. adher norm principl intern law implement un secur council resolut must ensured.",1,test
0,"armenia carri ethnic cleans azerbaijani popul occupi territories. azerbaijani forcibl expel occupi territories. armenia commit number war crime crime human azerbaijani civilians. armenia establish criminal, terrorist puppet regim territori hide respons occup lands.",1,test
0,cultur heritag azerbaijani peopl territori today’ armenia demolish plundered. armenia also destroy azerbaijani histor religi monument occupi territories. aim eras azerbaijani trace there.,1,test
0,"intern compani illeg exploit azerbaijan’ natur resourc occupi territori face legal responsibility, don’t stop illicit activ immediately. azerbaijan alreadi start take legal action person compani illeg exploit natur resourc occupi lands.",1,test
0,"april 2016, armenia launch large-scal militari attack azerbaijan. result attack, 6 azerbaijani civilians, includ one child killed, 26 civilian wounded.",1,test
0,deliber attack armenia 2017 led death 2 year old zahra guliyeva grandmother.,1,test
0,"12 juli 2020, armenia perpetr anoth provoc along state border. militari servicemen 76-year-old civilian kill due artilleri bombard azerbaijan’ tovuz district, extens damag done civilian infrastructure.",1,test
0,"aggress azerbaijan, armenia continu face deep demographic, social econom crisis. regim chang happen armenia two year ago, fascist ideolog fail state remain unchanged.",1,test
0,"mher yegiazarian, armenian journalist politician die prison follow hunger strike januari 2019. reaction intern organ whose duti observ democraci human right worldwide. human right watch, amnesti international, freedom hous other turn blind eye unhuman brutal action despot regim armenia. reason pashinyan regim financ support soro sponsor mani so-cal human right non-government organ worldwide.",1,test
0,"armenia countri oppos initi hold special session un gener assembl respons covid-19, wherea armenia, situat coronaviru desperate. armenia object initi azerbaijan launch it. object endeavor product irrat thought. anoth demonstr polici “azerbaijanophobia” prevail armenia promot government. hatr azerbaijani peopl instil young generation.",1,test
0,"launch effici measur tackl problem freshwat shortag due climat change. azerbaijan ratifi pari agreement, voluntari oblig achiev 35 per cent reduct greenhous ga emiss 2030 compar base year 1990. azerbaijan, use environment friendli natur ga hydroelectr power station electr generation.",1,test
0,"coronaviru pandem chang situat world entirely, result, new realiti emerged. initially, viru expect affect develop nations. however, pandem signific impact develop nation well. show viru recogn borders. mutual support joint effort overcom pandemic.",1,test
0,"azerbaijan taken time necessari prevent measur stop spread virus. azerbaijan’ attain millennium develop goal progress toward achiev sustain develop goal enabl us conduct effect fight pandemic. healthcar infrastructur azerbaijan develop renov significantly, almost 700 hospit healthcar facil built complet renov past 17 years.",1,test
0,"thank measur undertaken, country’ situat covid-19 remain control. citizens’ life health prioriti us, despit econom difficulti caus pandemic.",1,test
0,"socio-econom stimulu packag worth $2 billion releas ensur econom stability, tackl employ issues, ensur macroeconom fiscal stability. social relief measur cover nearli 5 million people, half population.",1,test
0,"outset, would like first foremost thank almighti god, enabl us come togeth debat issu dear heart behalf humankind.",1,test
0,"therefor firmli condemn unjustifi polit diplomat aggress burundi peopl foreign governments, known attempt regim chang 2015 unconstitut means. power diplomaci must give way mutual benefici respect cooperation.",1,test
0,"natur relat africa countri coloni past redefin order transform pain histori colon opportun mutual benefici cooperation, cannot lose sight fact conquest enslav africa strong resist peopl africa defend invas free coloni yoke claim million live africa left deep wound remain unhealed.",1,test
0,"regard burundi’ presenc secur council’ agenda, alway said burundi unfairli includ secur council’ agenda polit reason self-interest certain powers, noth welfar burundian peopl way whatsoev pose threat intern peac security.",1,test
0,"order share experi road travel implement sdgs, successes, current emerg challeng lesson learned, burundi submit voluntari nation review mechan 2020. remain convinc that, order sdgs, adopt 2015 becom reality, requir addit commitment, initiative, effort and, all, resources.",1,test
0,"regard climate, necessari recal planet, live live gener come, face crisi worsen day dramat rise climat sceptics. climat crisi put decad progress risk jeopard project undertaken bring inclus sustain development, while, time, clock continu click without wait us act.",1,test
0,"accordingly, order contribut restor environ improv country’ environmental, social econom situation, novemb 2017 govern republ burundi launch ewe burundi urambay project significantli reduc effect deforestation.",1,test
0,"regard covid-19 pandemic, led unpreced global crisis, liter claim hundr thousand lives, affect million peopl threaten erod eye progress alreadi made implement sustain develop goal 2030 agenda sustain develop agenda 2063 african union.",1,test
0,"pandem expos vulner today’ world highlight broad divid nation global develop efforts, high level poverti inequality, rage climat chang continu discrimin elderly, poor communities, women girls, erod social cohesion.",1,test
0,"but, minds, also led uncertainti question future.",1,test
0,geopolit tension palpabl conflict way loom variou corner globe. health crisi exacerb tensions.,1,test
0,"no, enough. plan must abandon all. annex would serious undermin viabil last solut close door futur negotiations.",1,test
0,"would like express government’ gratitud unit nations, member state intern organ consider assist provid develop countri gener benin, particular, design implement strategi respond pandemic. thank combin efforts, spread viru limit country, meant benin’ rate spread death rate low.",1,test
0,"burkina faso thank un secretary-gener global call solidarity, launch 31 march 2020. call enabl establish global framework aim promot integr flexibl response, order make best use un system’ global footprint.",1,test
0,world live fearsom intern peac secur threat worldwid geostrateg tensions.,1,test
0,"pandem stark remind fate interconnect one secur everyon secured. pandem larg extent kept us restrict homes. consequently, econom activ greatli hamper along health systems. bangladesh achiev gdp growth rate 8.2 per cent fiscal year 2018-2019. covid 19 pandem imped econom progress.",1,test
0,"alongwith govern assistance, collect fund distribut amount 2.5 billion taka among orphans, poor students, madrasas, mosques, temples, school teachers, artists, journalist otherwis includ government’ assist programmes. result, impact pandem among peopl minimal.",1,test
0,"pandemic, highest emphasi place food production. time, taken measur ensur adequ suppli nutrit people. special arrang made keep industri run proper market agricultur product industri output full complianc health guidelines. consequently, health sector economi still compar better shape. despit covid-19-induc stagnat global industri outputs, gdp regist growth rate 5.24 per cent, expect 7 per centin next fiscal year.",1,test
0,unflinch commit peac result adopt zero- toler polici toward terror violent extremism. nation effort complement intern cooper curb menace.,1,test
0,"like countries, temporarili close border regul movement peopl limit spread covid-19. prioriti was, alway be, protect live ensur safeti within borders. temporari closur border caus one largest declin visitor number sinc advent modern tourism bahamas.",1,test
0,"slowdown econom activ area privat sector caus unpreced increas unemploy prompt activ unemploy benefit programm self-employ assist programme, well social safeti programmes, includ nation food distribut program, largest feed program nation’ history.",1,test
0,"honor address behalf bosnia herzegovina year’ unit nation gener assembly. although, due extraordinari circumst caus health crisis, opportun gather un headquarters, extrem import exchang experi opinion manner, maintain continu unit nation gener assembl sessions.",1,test
0,"coronaviru pandem certainli mark year world, brought us challeng could even imagin that. taking, already, hundr hundr thousand lives, pandem sown misfortun throughout world  aggriev numer families, whose pain truli sympath with.",1,test
0,"sinc last quarter 2017, bosnia herzegovina face enorm problem illeg migrations, significantli worsen year. due close remain migrat routes, major migrant come far middl east head toward countri european union territori bosnia herzegovina, pose enorm secur humanitarian problem, counti enough resourc solv it.",1,test
0,"one hand, bosnia herzegovina final destin migrants, face problem sole due geograph proxim european union entri point migrants. hand, bosnia herzegovina understand posit within intern commun european secur area responsibly, also need stronger support european union, well entir intern community.",1,test
0,"good reason, first time high week gener assembly’ commemor session held unusu format.",1,test
0,simpl reason “intern community” develop common approach. therefor probabl pandem someth else.,1,test
0,countri make real progress address global issu other left behind sidelines.,1,test
0,"context, would also like recal one outstand histor figur unit nation — nobel peac prize laureat former secretary- gener dag hammarskjold, whose 115th birthday commemor year. consid one inspir tireless promot concept prevent diplomacy. dag hammarskjold, die crisi manag mission hotspot, believ mutual respect dialogu honest negoti among parti potenti conflict earli stage could prevent war igniting.",1,test
0,"must note sever year belaru activ call resumpt broad dialogu intern security, aim overcom current contradict relat among states. dialogu would enabl return build effect global order base multilateralism.",1,test
0,"accordingly, belaru advoc support pragmat initi within un order fulli realiz potenti organ maintain intern peac security.",1,test
0,interfer intern affair sanction restrict measur belaru opposit effect harm absolut everyone. alreadi experienc past.,1,test
0,"see partner stakehold nation intern level one key factor acceler implement 2030 agenda. middle-incom country, belaru believ separ un strategi promot sustain develop — line similar document group develop countri — necessari success achiev sustain develop goal categori states.",1,test
0,"beliz tourism dependent, export orient country. invariably, therefore, travel tourism industri shutdown market agro product depressed, economi flounders. date 73 per cent worker tourism sector, labour intens sector economy, lost jobs. seemli simultaneously, countri beset health crisi econom crisis. order deal health crisis, govern establish bipartisan nation oversight committe  noc  broad supervisori respons belize’ covid-19 respons recoveri initiatives, includ initi mitig impact covid-19 pandem societi economy.",1,test
0,"term econom stimulus, govern launch programm anim impact sector economi includ extens $7.25-million line credit micro, small medium enterpris  provis wage subsidi promot employe retention, provis $5-million special line credit tourism stakeholders. also launch econom recoveri strategi rest 5 pillar namely: support busi recovery, creat busi climat growth, improv govern efficiency, strengthen product sector agriculture, grow emerg economy.",1,test
0,"worthi note that, pre-covid-19 beliz contend econom declin caus ongo climat impact prolong drought impact primari sector output, along continu challeng caus sargassum inund marin spaces. septemb 4, hurrican nana struck us inflict anoth blow beleagu agricultur sector.",1,test
0,pandem emphas interconnect collect vulnerability. imper intern commun come togeth ralli behind vision charter advanc digniti human be larger freedom.,1,test
0,"wetlands, area larger mani european countries, california, face problems. larg fire inevit consequ high local temperatur coupl accumul decay organ matter.",1,test
0,"2019, brazil victim crimin seepag venezuelan oil, sold without proper control, result seriou damag environ major loss fish tourism industries.",1,test
0,"oper welcome, led brazilian ministri defense, receiv almost 400,000 venezuelan displac result deep polit econom crisi bred venezuelan dictatorship.",1,test
0,power imbal caus world lose equilibrium.,1,test
0,"refus power help reviv economi — whether moratoria refinancing, even access concession loan grant — caus us greater econom hardship.",1,test
0,"anoth instanc one-sided global financi system organis limit membership engag univers “blacklisting”, correspond bank relationship unilater withdrawn. small countri blacklist dare exert sovereign right creat taxat system forc compet rule voic setting.",1,test
0,arbitrari engag countri like barbado must cease. done without knowledg involvement. contrari law natur justice. combin factor push countri back state postcoloni penury.,1,test
0,"iron countri repres today provid advic small island develop state increas resilience, take decis area significantli undermin efforts. secret greatest contributor climat crisi bear consequ proportionally, consequ incentiv decreas greenhous ga emissions.",1,test
0,"manifest “perfect storm” undoubtedli derail limit progress posit make implement 2030 agenda, jeopardis abil meet sustain develop goal within agre timeframe. all, exact horrif toll million famili worldwid alreadi taken close million lives.",1,test
0,"mr. president, barbados’ recoveri econom social impact covid-19 pandem slow painful. resuscit economi balanc act reopen tourism-rel servic air travel, ensur popul remain safe. given import global tourism industry, firm view worker sector prioritis among frontlin worker earmark receiv approv vaccinations. would put hundr million peopl back work stimul largest global econom driver,",1,test
0,"act uniti manag keep number case low. today, record 261 posit cases, 192 recovered. mortal covid-19 remain zero.",1,test
0,"us, sdg reson well development plan base principl gnh. reason, bhutan track becom earli achiev sdgs, shown voluntari review 2018.",1,test
0,"see need review whole sdgs, pandem also derail us ldc graduat track. current plan design help bhutan graduat ldc categori 2023. everyth changed, focu shift save live livelihood challeng pose pandemic.",1,test
0,"process, depriv valu human connection, know, huge psycho-soci impact. may realiz today bear brunt line. could impact entir gener children mind today.",1,test
0,"way, celebr un’ next milestone, 100th anniversary, would achiev 100 per cent literaci rate, empow everyon relev skill knowledg meaning life.",1,test
0,would also enabl everyon 100 per cent digit compet help deriv advantag technolog corner world.,1,test
0,"theme time remind valu signific multilater ultim framework everlast solut exist emerg global challeng attained. indeed, world much safer secur place nation work togeth toward collect respons complex threat time.",1,test
0,"end, govern introduc econom polici reform stimul fast-track transform mani sectors. action aim creat enabl environ privat sector develop pursuit goal 8, is, decent work econom growth.",1,test
0,"botswana acceler access inclusive, equit qualiti educ through, amongst interventions, implement educ train sector strateg plan. etssp, it’ commonli known, aim transform learn ensur access, retention, promot life-long learn skill development.",1,test
0,"note pandemic, estim 783 million peopl live extrem poverti globally. however, june 2020, world bank project pandem could push addit 71 million peopl extrem poverti 2020, therefor revers gain made recent decades.",1,test
0,"part, govern continu empow uplift poor varieti poverti erad programmes. programm equip enabl beneficiari start micro small scale enterpris better survival. programm uplift beneficiari poverti sustain incom generation, creation sustenance.",1,test
0,"stated, covid-19 detriment botswana’ economy. suspens intern travel global econom meltdown dealt heavi blow two mainstay economi  tourism diamond mining. repeat lockdown covid-19 protocol also significantli reduc econom activity.",1,test
0,"keen interest botswana also support given countri special situat least develop countri  landlock develop countri  small island develop state vulner categori unit nation member states. landlock country, botswana has, pandem experienc challeng cross-bord movement good servic due border closures.",1,test
0,"though juri still reforms, deleg observ manag reform brought improv organisation’ crisi response. nonetheless believ remain done, encourag gener assembl princip organ step reform efforts.",1,test
0,"botswana, semi-arid countri errat rainfal frequent droughts, attach great import goal 13  climat action . climat condit affect livelihood imped food production. moreover, recent drought result dri water sourc includ wildlife. contribut anim death escal human-wildlif conflict.",1,test
0,"order strengthen mitig adaptation, govern develop climat chang respons polici nation adapt plan. work civil society, academia, intern partners, acceler implement commit pari agreement.",1,test
0,"current chair sadc organ politics, defenc secur cooperation, botswana commit ensur close attent given imper combat terror secur threat order enhanc peac stabil sadc region.",1,test
0,"appreci support provid unit nation offic counter- terror partners, enhanc capac botswana’ newli establish counter terror analysi fusion agenc order enabl us mitig exposur menace.",1,test
0,"despit government’ willing respect commit contain polit agreement, massiv violat intern humanitarian law human right continu perpetr civilian popul certain arm group signatori agreement. group also continu rearm illeg means, therebi undermin peac nation reconcili process, guarante social cohesion.",1,test
0,"base moral legal respons toward peoples, affirmed, continu reaffirm, uncondit dialogu base common interest respect sovereignti state way solv crisi start illeg blockade, whose solut start lift blockade.",1,test
0,"desir peac achiev israel’ full commit term refer decis intern legitimaci accept arab upon arab peac initi based, israel tri circumv act palestinian caus exist. arrang base term refer achiev peace, even call peace. may intent solut palestinian cause, achiev comprehensive, last peace.",1,test
0,"linger palestinian caus without solution, israel’ continu settlement creation pretext ground without deter pose biggest question mark credibl intern commun institutions.",1,test
0,"call intern commun —especi secur council — assum legal respons oblig israel lift sieg gaza strip, put peac process back track credibl negoti base intern resolut force, address final statu issues, end occup within specifi time frame establish independ palestinian state within 1967 borders, east jerusalem capital, end isra occup arab territories.",1,test
0,"context endeavor prepar appropri condit reach peac respond econom humanitarian difficulti face brother palestine, we, coordin intern partners, continu provid humanitarian development aid cater urgent longterm need besieg gaza strip, addit increas contribut unrwa.",1,test
0,"base firm belief resolv disput peac means, grace god thank him, state qatar’ mediat effort culmin sign peac agreement unit state taliban movement, doha, 29 february, 2020, abl make exchang prison govern afghanistan taliban movement success discuss held doha last month.",1,test
0,"efforts, along intern partners, conven intra-afghan peac negoti began 12th month, doha, culmin success, ensu success depend afghan brother themselves. exert effort cooper intern commun facilit dialogue, hope peac stabil soon prevail across afghanistan, everyon decid complet renounc violence, accept diversity, differ equal citizenship country.",1,test
0,"occasion, reiter firm stanc state qatar way end syrian crisi polit solut base geneva communiqu  1 , implement secur council resolut 2254  2015 . state qatar also affirm continue, intern community, support effort realiz justic hold account perpetr atrocities, war crime crime human commit syria.",1,test
0,"rage war sisterli yemen still demolish urban build yemen, wipe necess life, threaten secur region, affirm way resolv crisi negoti yemeni accord outcom nation dialogue, gulf initiative, relev secur council resolutions, particularly, resolut 2216  2015 . affirm firm posit uniti yemen territori integrity.",1,test
0,"reiter call relev countri facilit effort brother sudan remov name sudan list state sponsor terrorism, difficulti hardship face taken toll them. context, qatar stood brother provid support counter flood sever inflict seriou damag facil peopl well, call upon intern commun provid kind necessari support counter natur disasters.",1,test
0,"regard libyan issue, reiter welcom ceasefir agreement activ polit process accord skhirat agreement outcomes, achiev comprehens polit settlement maintain libyan sovereignty, territori integr independence, stem bloodsh peopl preserv wealth. benefici understand imposs impos militari regim forc libya.",1,test
0,"terror remain one promin challeng face world pose real threat intern peac security, imped achiev sustain develop peoples. state qatar spare effort activ particip intern region effort address phenomenon tackl roots, especi support educ million children, youth women creat job opportun young men.",1,test
0,"field develop assist develop countri least develop countries, support countri affect neg impact climat change, qatar fulfil pledg provid contribut $100 million support least develop countri small island develop state deal climat change.",1,test
0,"romania remain firm support multilater rules-bas intern order, un core. romania commit cooper safer futur all, promot sustain development, respect human rights, peac security. futur want!",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem demonstrated, more, global challeng requir common action, solidar cooperation. must show commit “a quantum leap collect engagement”, mention secretary-general. multilater also essenti har opportun build back better greener, toward inclus sustain economies, societi „no one left behind”. order achiev that, must continu reform un, make effective, effici fit purpose. unit nation need!",1,test
0,"pandem prompt increas divis across world, well attempt weaken democracy. however, period facilit spread disinform mislead information, possibl vector spread violenc extremism.",1,test
0,"therefor pivot moment transform crisi new opportun revit secur peac agenda, strong emphasi conflict prevent consolid peac processes. effort context peac oper must continu ever greater efficiency. also support greater integr principl respons protect action project focus prevention.",1,test
0,"convinc cooper unit nation region organ essenti instrument consolid secur develop world. alway concern multitud unresolv conflict black sea region, affect stabil cooper neighbourhood. continu promot cooper unit nation variou organ region, includ current chairman black sea econom cooperation.",1,test
0,"decad action sdgs, must also work togeth protect planet ecosystems. need resort ration use planetari resourc pursu econom growth, full respect biodiversity. biodivers summit offer uniqu opportun show ambit acceler action biodivers sustain development.",1,test
0,"firm action also need order tackl climat environment emergencies. rise sea level catastroph weather events, longer afford ignor risk climat change. duti futur gener turn glasgow cop26 success achiev goal pari agreement.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem also take toll human rights, deepen pre exist inequ enhanc vulnerabilities. must ensur comprehens consist approach human right core effort econom recovery.",1,test
0,"digit technolog central almost everi aspect respons pandem prerequisit achiev sdgs. develop use digit technologies, includ artifici intelligence, base ethic principles, must human-centred. promot protect human rights, democracy, good governance, account rule law must provid offlin online. thu need univers polit commit digit security. un galvan digit cooper global level contribut mobil actor ensur open, secur afford access digit infrastructur all.",1,test
0,"digit sector romania amount 6 per cent gdp import driver growth innovation. see digit opportun everyon key compon econom development. romania’ digit transform aim make countri less bureaucratic, resilient, attract foreign investment. also potenti turn romania region innov hub.",1,test
0,"covid-19 crisi proven disinform hostil action inform environ threaten intern human security, effect addressed. crisi demonstr crucial need access reliable, accur science-bas information. thus, confirm role free, independent, account pluralist media strengthen transparency, account trust.",1,test
0,"romania pay particular attent youth, especi far educ profession train concerned. such, doubl number scholarship offer foreign citizen 2020-2021 academ year, particular attent africa. believ ensur continu youth training, contribut materi “build back better” principle.",1,test
0,"conclusion, un need must ensur effect multilater mobil stakeholders, governments, financi busi sectors, academia civil society. order find sustain solut current global challenges, must hear voic society, women girls, youth children, well peopl vulner situations.",1,test
0,"also experienc whole new challeng coronaviru pandemic. diseas directli affect million peopl claim import thing: live hundr thousand people. quarantines, border closures, numer seriou troubl citizen almost state constitut present-day realia. especi difficult elderli peopl who, due necessari restrictions, abl hug love ones, children grandchildren week even months.",1,test
0,"way elabor solut work together, import task un g20 states, well lead inter state organ integr associ also go tough time due pandem impact need fundament new horizon scope development.",1,test
0,"general, free world trade barriers, bans, restrict illegitim sanction would great help revit global growth reduc unemployment. accord experts, total partial reduct global employ second quarter year equal loss 400 million jobs, utmost prevent unemploy grow long-term ensur peopl return work support famili instead find imprison poverti prospect life.",1,test
0,"pandem also pinpoint seri ethical, technolog humanitarian matters. instance, advanc digit technolog help quickli reorgan education, trade services, well set distant learn onlin cours peopl differ ages. artifici intellig assist doctor make accur time diagnos find best treatment.",1,test
0,"however, like innovation, digit technolog tend spread uncontrol and, like convent weapons, fall hand variou radic extremist region conflict zones, also quit prosper countries, thu engend enorm risks.",1,test
0,"believ un prestig could strengthen enhanc role humanitarian human compon multilater bilater relations, name people-to-peopl youth exchanges, cultur ties, social educ programs, well cooper sports, science, technology, environ health protection.",1,test
0,"build scientific, industri clinic experi doctor russia promptli develop rang test system medicin detect treat coronavirus, well regist world’ first vaccine, “sputnik-v.”",1,test
0,critic item today’ agenda. issu environment protect climat chang remain focu joint efforts.,1,test
0,"disput differences, time misunderstand even distrust part colleagues, consist advanc constructive, unit initiatives, first arm control strengthen treati regim exist area. includ prohibit chemical, biolog toxin weapons.",1,test
0,"believ reciproc step specif issu would provid sound basi launch serious, profound dialogu entir rang factor affect strateg stability. would aim achiev comprehens arrangements, shape solid foundat intern secur architectur would build prior experi field line exist futur politico-militari technolog realia.",1,test
0,"well awar fact secur issu well problem discuss jubile un gener assembl call consolid effort basi valu unit us, share memori lesson history, spirit allianc guid anti-hitl coalit particip found possibl rais differ ideolog prefer sake victori peac nation earth.",1,test
0,"fulli realiz responsibility, russia suggest conven g5 summit. would aim reaffirm key principl behavior intern affairs, elabor way effect address today’ burn issues. encourag partner support initiative. expect hold summit — person — soon epidemiolog situat make possible.",1,test
0,75th anniversari unit nation fall moment uncommon peril peopl planet. covid pandem claim nearli one million live push hundr million unexpect hardship. time doubt hesitation. tool meet test prevail. mark import anniversari year.,1,test
0,"twenty-f year ago, world confer women beij chart transform agenda gender equality, continu guid us. empower women made us safer wealthier. true gender equal still attain country.",1,test
0,"five year ago, pari agreement climat chang signed. implement framework slow pace global warm give economi time adapt new technologies.",1,test
0,"kigali amend montreal protocol, adopt four year ago, play major role reduc consumpt hydrofluorocarbons. half member state ratifi kigali amendment, force, call upon remaind ratifi soon possible.",1,test
0,"five year ago, sustain develop goal adopted, defin ambit integr global development. ten year remain 2030, let’ deceiv difficult meet target time. countries, especi africa, alreadi off-track 2020. pandem disrupt growth revenu collect around world, like sever year come.",1,test
0,"creation access covid tool accelerator, includ covax global vaccin facility, critic import africa. ensur equit access vaccines, therapeutics, diagnost speed end pandem everyone.",1,test
0,"pandem highlight import resili nation health system strong domest health financing. african union champion agenda among member states, emphasi spend more, spend better. goal africa leverag resourc reinforc impact global health partnerships, global fund gavi.",1,test
0,"come decades, prosper close link digit literaci access high-spe connectivity. secretary-general’ roadmap digit cooper compel farsighted, build work broadband commiss initiatives.",1,test
0,"success depend strengthen institutions, nation international, includ work scientists, innovators, creators. question funding. posit human valu citizen govern invest institutions, must accountable.",1,test
0,"outset, would like extend sincerest congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session un gener assembly, wish success fulfil duties.",1,test
0,"today, world face tremend challeng form covid-19 pandem health, humanitarian, econom repercuss compel us stand togeth order face common challeng world. presid g20, kingdom coordin intern effort hold leaders’ summit last march coordin global effort combat pandem curb humanitarian econom impacts. summit, kingdom announc pledg $500 million support effort combat pandemic, reinforc emerg prepared responses. kingdom continu promot global respons effort confront pandem address repercussions.",1,test
0,"however, middl east afflict major secur polit challeng undermin secur peopl stabil countries.",1,test
0,"region suffer mani decad attempt forc extrem chao seek impos malign view polici order hijack countries’ present future, pay heed aspir peopl region development, prosperity, peace. kingdom, chose path futur vision 2030 aspir creat robust economi commun interact surround contribut activ progress civil humankind.",1,test
0,"kingdom’ hand extend iran peac posit open attitud past decades, avail. kingdom receiv sever iran’ presid senior officials, among kingdom’ effort seek way build relat base good neighborli mutual respect. kingdom welcom intern effort deal iran’ nuclear program, time again, entir world wit iranian regim exploit effort order intensifi expansionist activities, creat terrorist networks, use terrorism, process squander resourc wealth iranian peopl purpos expansionist project produc noth chaos, extremism, sectarianism.",1,test
0,"iranian regime, line hostil attitude, target oil facil kingdom last year blatant violat intern laws. so, assault intern peac secur prove disregard stabil global economi secur oil suppli intern markets. iranian regim also continues, surrogates, target kingdom, launching, date, 300 ballist missil 400 arm drone  uav  stark violat unsc resolut 2216  2015  2231  2015 . experi iranian regim taught us partial solut appeas stop threat intern peac security. comprehens solut firm intern posit requir ensur fundament solut iranian regime’ attempt obtain weapon mass destruction, ballist missil program, interfer intern affair countries, sponsorship terrorism.",1,test
0,"iranian regim interf yemen support coup carri surrogate, houthi militia, legitim government. led political, economic, humanitarian crisi fratern peopl yemen suffering. coup threat secur countri region sea lane vital global economy. furthermore, houthi militia imped flow humanitarian aid yemeni people. also obstruct effort reach polit solut yemen reject effort deescal situation, latest ceasefir announc made coalit support legitimaci yemen last april respons un’ request, order allow effort combat covid-19 pandem yemen proceed. instead, continu target civilian yemen kingdom.",1,test
0,"achiev success battl terror extremism, must intensifi joint effort face challeng comprehensively. includ combat financ terror extremism. kingdom support mani intern entiti contribut reinforc joint effort combat challenge. kingdom support un counter-terror center contribut $110 million establish global center combat extremist ideolog  etid  riyadh. kingdom also host intern terrorist financ target center.",1,test
0,"terrorist extremist organ find fertil ground sprout spread countri sectarian divis weak collaps state institutions. intend win battl terrorism, must waiver face countri sponsor terror sectarianism, must stand firmli face countri promot transnat extremist ideologies, reli fals polit slogan hide extremist, chaotic, destruct nature.",1,test
0,"also stand fratern peopl lebanon experienc humanitarian catastroph result explos port beirut, occur result hegemoni hizbollah, terrorist organ affili iran, decis make process lebanon forc arms. led disabl constitut state institut lebanon. order fratern peopl lebanon achiev aspir security, stability, prosperity, terrorist organ must disarmed.",1,test
0,"podium call intensif global effort confront great challeng face human area climat change, poverty, organ crime, spread epidemics, challeng requir strengthen cooper work bright futur gener come may live stability, peace, security.",1,test
0,"therefore, rostrum call enhanc cooper strengthen collect action mechan that, together, may face challeng pose spread covid-19 pandemic. must strive achiev session’ theme: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",1,test
0,"sudan current experienc except circumst due impact unpreced torrenti rain floods, exacerb challeng alreadi face. flood nile led sever loss human life properti throughout area adjac it. great damag also caus rain flood vast areas, includ partial total collaps ten thousand homes. would like, regard, pay tribut friendli brotherli countri demonstr solidar provid gener support respons catastrophe.",1,test
0,"assembl aware, sudan undergo transit phase follow gloriou popular revolut injustice, tyranni socioeconom decline. transit govern address broad aspir sudanes peopl tri utmost tackl new challeng import establish peac econom reform.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem complic situat transit government, inherit crippl economi weak devast servic sectors, particularli health sector, neglect decades.",1,test
0,"adopt constitut declar 17 august 2019 constitut second stage victori revolution, make peac put end war top prioriti transit government. basi upon juba process launched. simpli negoti two war parties, past, rather process dialogu partner revolut order achiev peac cessat war, well address root caus conflict. juba peac agreement sign 3 october.",1,test
0,"context, wish note revolut govern hasten remov restrict obstacl hinder deliveri humanitarian aid need conflict areas. within framework, part nation plan improv humanitarian action ensur need popul met, state adopt project find sustain solut improv live condit displac persons, accord provis intern instrument law govern humanitarian work",1,test
0,"econom front, econom situat continu increasingli weigh citizen result econom distort caus defunct regime. furthermore, profound reform set implement, aim remedi structur defect sudanes economy, indirectli increas cost living. reform pain arduous, necessari long term. order mitig effects, start implement social programm support famili provid direct financi aid poorest famili aim mitig effect reforms. programm also aim support product provid direct support agricultur labour group product rural urban areas. govern also support establish cooper project implement commod programme, project aim provid basic commod citizens.",1,test
0,country’ govern attach great import issu rule law nation intern level make continu effort address nation law view develop ensur consist intern standard conventions. effort also consist multipl initi undertaken local relev author area build strengthen nation capac empow compet bodi fulfil respons task accord constitut relat laws. process achiev rule law nation level respons state governments.,1,test
0,"sudan continu activ contribut support stabil polit secur situat countri african continent, especi countri region, activ membership region organ african union, igad, intern confer great lake region, sahel sahara. occasion, would like express appreci great posit role african union play confront coronaviru pandem africa.",1,test
0,"sudan express solidar victim terror around world countri suffer terrorist attacks. renew reject condemn terror form manifest cooperation, access effect contribut intern bilater effort terror financing. commit implement relev intern resolut issu secur council.",1,test
0,"sudan, despit chang caus blood martyr decad oppression, injustic backwardness, despit achiev made brief span gloriou revolution, transit period still face number daunt challeng must overcom continu support intern commun friend order complet implement government’ plans. aim address econom hardship countri go through, foremost among waiv sudan’ debt grant soft loans, well commit friend fulfil pledg announc sudan partnership confer berlin. that, name sudan must remov list countri sponsor terrorism, countri return fulli intern commun forc interrupt three decades. context, wish commend recent step taken us administr us congress support transit government, includ determin acceler step drop sudan list terrorist countries.",1,test
0,"mind, address three major topics. first, speak imper find collect unit respons global health emerg brought covid-19 pandemic.",1,test
0,"year 2020 undoubtedli rememb dark time, indel mark pandemic, whose devast effect everi aspect live demonstr — need demonstr — collect vulnerability.",1,test
0,"addition, must work togeth ensur avail access essenti health-car services, particular qualiti primari care, key achiev 2030 agenda sustain development, especi sustain develop goal 3.",1,test
0,"devast impact crisi economi indisputable! collaps econom growth consequ dearth sourc foreign exchang shock commod prices, well declin exports, invest migrant remittances, put world economi crisi situat like seen sinc 1930s.",1,test
0,"therefore, order ensur proper recoveri economi ensur global sociopolit stability, need focu intern solidar cooperation.",1,test
0,"regard, secretary-general’ call large-scal multilater respons marshal financi resourc least 10 per cent world’ gdp deserv full support, show us way effect address global challenges.",1,test
0,"admittedly, africa continu face polit secur challenges, hinder sustain develop efforts.",1,test
0,"sahel, example, terror violent extrem found fertil ground, result death toll, destruct infrastructur looting, therebi maintain environ fear. backdrop polit institut instability, poverty, exclusion, porou border illiteracy, among others.",1,test
0,youth contin — 60 per cent popul 24 year age — immens natur resourc vital repres tremend potenti term econom social transformation. time therefor come serious look africa light.,1,test
0,determin combat covid-19 pandem must also inspir us fight effect climat chang safeguard biodiversity.,1,test
0,"indeed, need recal climat chang devast effect populations, particularli increas poverty, rural exodus, social exclus intercommun tension natur resources.",1,test
0,"order address covid-19 pandemic, seneg launch econom social resili programm fund amount 1,000 billion cfa francs, $1.6 billion.",1,test
0,"programme, incorpor sdgs, priorit health pharmaceut sovereignty, resili popul macroeconom financi stability.",1,test
0,"within framework, instruct head state, govern launch 500 billion cfa franc invest plan period 2020 2024 ensur health-car system’ resili sustainability.",1,test
0,faith human solidar justic drive seneg role chair committe exercis inalien right palestinian people.,1,test
0,"therefore, sustain develop aspir futur gener must centr share human harmoni law nature.",1,test
0,first time un gener assembly’ 75-year histori world leader gather person. decis proceed high level week larg virtual testament commit multilater un.,1,test
0,"covid-19 becom defin crisi time. global death toll continu rise, global economy, trade, travel sever disrupted. million job hundr thousand live lost.",1,test
0,"world face period prolong turmoil. multilater system confront nationalism, xenophobia, reject free trade global econom integration, bifurc technolog suppli chains. threat new. covid-19 fact acceler intensifi preexist trends. protection unilater action ultim self defeating.",1,test
0,"first, modern suppli chain complex. extrem difficult complet onshor product key item sinc materi expertis elsewher alway need multipl step process. mani countri experienc disrupt flow essenti good lockdowns. suppli chain base “just-in-time” effici review basi “just-in-case”.",1,test
0,"second, bifurc shrink global pool knowledg reduc opportun share benefit research innovation. countri open share scientif knowledg abl produc test kit quickli pandem earli phase. prime minist said global vaccin summit last june, need vaccin multilateralism. need greater intern cooper ensur equit univers access covid-19 vaccin",1,test
0,"third, breach contractu oblig export critic good movement peopl erod trust nations.",1,test
0,"path post-covid-19 “new normal” linear. stage way, countri need balanc public health concern econom social concerns, make trade-off base uniqu nation circumstances. continu intern cooper key overcom devast impact pandem rebuilding. need build greater trust, need learn one another. also need cooper establish safe protocol order re-start travel again.",1,test
0,"multilater system advanc interest small states. larg nation also benefit act multilater institut gain polit legitimacy. benefit peaceful, stabl prosper global environment. multilater institut provid avenu countri pool idea work togeth deal common challeng face humanity, includ covid-19 now, also essenti us advanc share interests.",1,test
0,"sever short- medium-term challeng need overcome. first, need defeat covid-19 together. need understand none us, nation larg small, safe us safe together. need global cooperation, less. ensur medic suppli scientif collabor continu flow across borders, need intensifi exchang inform infect protocols, hope resum semblanc “normal” life, includ resumpt intern travel, safely.",1,test
0,"context, pursuit vaccin multilater critic ensur univers equit access covid-19 vaccine, maximis global health impact eventu vaccine. singapor switzerland work thirteen like-mind partner friend covid 19 vaccin global access facility. covax, short. covax facil seek reduc risk facilit equit access vaccin nations.",1,test
0,"continu support world health organisation’   effort formul respons covid-19 facilit vaccin development. postpandemic, may necessari review process improv further, now, focu immedi prioriti overcom pandemic.",1,test
0,"second, need work togeth rebuild commun institutions. immedi term, need help lost famili members, lost livelihood educ interrupted. also consid way tackl inequ covid-19 expos case exacerbated. need build equit societies.",1,test
0,"hard over-emphasis open, rules-bas multilater trade system foundat sustain global recovery. system allow countri trade good servic mutual benefici ways. rais hundr million peopl poverty. aftermath covid-19, look way support strengthen system make work better future. also need rebuild safe reliabl transport network facilit resumpt peopl mobility.",1,test
0,"third, rebuild, must continu import work increas resili meet challeng pose digit revolution, cybersecur threats, climat change, transboundari pollution.",1,test
0,"shall focu today challeng pose specif digit revolut climat change. must har new digit technolog benefit societi whilst mitig possibl neg impact. covid-19 acceler deploy artifici intelligence, robotics, digit payments, e-govern services, remot work.",1,test
0,"climat change, pari agreement establish import global consensu action climat change. must lose sight goal preserv planet futur generations. covid-19 show inextric link well-b health one planet environ envelop us. irrefut respect biodivers wildlif essenti humankind’ health existence. countri therefor align recoveri effort longterm climat goals.",1,test
0,"un secretary-gener alreadi initi essenti work. reform un gear toward meet new challenges, also promot forg consensu amongst member state emerg issues. need continu emphasi longstand issu like support small island develop state least develop countries.",1,test
0,"need concurr revitalis gener assembl make genuin attempt reform secur council. intern governance, ever before, need representative, inclusive, open. need take account wide spectrum view acknowledg rich divers global community. un secretary-general’ abil take current futur challeng also depend polit financi commit member states. thu essenti continu support.",1,test
0,"likewise, multilater institutions, world trade organis  wto , need reform well. wto neutral arbit intern trade disput mandat monitor enforc intern agre trade laws. singapore, strong support rule base multilater trade system, believ valu wto, brought decad prosper us. however, wto’ rule design agricultur manufacturing- base world economy, today urgent need reform. world need appropri rule services, especi digit servic intellectu property, prepar digit age unfold front us.",1,test
0,"must seiz opportun un’ 75th anniversari present current covid-19 pandem reinvigor rules-bas multilater system. chanc collect recreat condit inclus econom growth envis 2030 agenda sustain development. need strengthen collect abil respond futur shocks, covid-19 clear present exampl shock, need abl respond multilater system.",1,test
0,"behalf govern people, may take opportun congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. wealth experi serv organ well, lead us agenda, particularli unpreced challeng times, world navig way global pandem caus covid-19. let assur solomon island support cooper tenur office.",1,test
0,"outset, allow me, behalf govern peopl solomon islands, offer sincerest condol lost love one coronavirus. stand solidar all, sad times.",1,test
0,"theme chosen 75th session render us time opportun again, turn eye toward strength multilater address multipl complex challeng world face today.",1,test
0,"space months, covid-19 result 30 million confirm case covid-19, includ 900,000 deaths, accord latest offici world health organ statistics. health sector viru remain novelti mani scientif medic profession worldwid such, long-term health repercuss recov either unknown poorli understood.",1,test
0,public kept inform viru talk back show covid-19 oversight committee. also inform public weekli address nation broadcast live air televised. ensur peopl kept inform step govern undertak protect country. govern continu focu build necessari health infrastructur within hospit prepar accommod person may contract virus.,1,test
0,"addition, also in-countri test capacity. possibl assist people’ republ china australia, may add manifest theme. said, put place standard oper procedur differ sector guid us deal global pandemic. object two-fold. number one prioriti protect countri keep viru breach borders. second object keep economi afloat. confid viru breach border contain manag quarantin stations.",1,test
0,"covid-19 brought solomon island closer partners. made new friends, latest “philippin red cross”, fantast work test look student manila. grate excel work red cross continu nationals.",1,test
0,"covid-19 close border neg impact global economy. solomon island exception, go difficult period, however, launch econom stimulu packag reset boost economy. let thank partner support econom initiative.",1,test
0,"also launch develop bank solomon island aim provid sustain financi servic target develop rural areas, especi small medium enterpris primarili engag commerc industries.",1,test
0,"whilst deal pandem global proportions, solomon island continu battl increment effect climat chang neg impact livelihoods, secur wellb solomon islanders. climat chang result chang weather pattern caus anomali weather event epic proportions. additionally, climat chang result warm global temperatur melt ice cap caus sea level rise. sea level rise abnorm weather event wreak havoc infrastructur home mention threaten food secur lives. earlier year, experienc traumat effect tropic cyclon harold. allow thank develop partner step assist us disaster.",1,test
0,"solomon island part, remain commit reduc carbon footprint doubl nation determin contribut ongo work tina hydropow project. 15-megawatt hydropow project reduc relianc fossil fuel 70 per cent. despit challeng brought covid-19, effort project commiss 2024 remain track continu call develop partner remain us steadi trajectory.",1,test
0,"wish remind us all, collect effort combat coronavirus, must lose sight need address ongo challeng brought climat change. reiter government’ call action greater mean implement reduc greenhous ga emissions. furthermore, call state set ambiti nation determin contributions. let us adher scienc tell us strive maintain global temperatur increas 1.5 degre celsius.",1,test
0,"graduat categori least develop countri import mileston develop trajectori develop country. solomon island transit phase graduat schedul graduat 2024. however, time solomon island underw triennial review, pass vulner criterion. vulner becom glaringli obviou covid-19 exacerb preexist challeng face solomon island made pathway toward sustain graduat smooth transit extrem difficult.",1,test
0,"solomon island present first ever voluntari nation review report implement agenda 2030 juli year. despit technolog challenges, abl highlight achiev made date. solomon island continu see increas number children enrol formal educ system. secondly, proud establish nation financ framework develop underpin financ implement sustain develop goals.",1,test
0,report also highlight challeng face term health sector particularli rate non-communic diseas cases. seven ten death solomon island caus non-communic diseases. remain largest singl caus death country.,1,test
0,"allow conclud commend theme year’ gener assembl session. could come critic time, find face deadliest pandem affect modern world horrend ways. mani live tragic lost mani continu affect ongo onslaught. may take time paus reflect, viru chang live look way collabor togeth allevi impacts.",1,test
0,"continu confront problem world face  climat change, deterior health planet coronaviru  must rememb address collect action everi one us. old african proverb say ‘if wish go fast, go alone. wish go far, go together’. time us act collect address need everyon includ vulner among us! togeth togeth go far.",1,test
0,"outset, let also, behalf govern peopl sierra leone, express heartfelt deep condol member state unit nation loss live due covid-19 pandemics. salut selfless frontlin respond global emergency.",1,test
0,"also applaud adoption, assembl secur council, variou covid-19-focus resolut well initi secretary-gener antonio guterr aim promot global solidar cooper fight covid-19 address impact live livelihood long term.",1,test
0,"global family, collect commit multilater effect tackl covid-19 pandem meaning address prevail univers challeng poverty, hunger, diseases, natur disasters, climat change, terrorism, human right violations, cybersecurity, transnat organ crime.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem continu disrupt destroy live livelihood also pose substant risk intern peac security. especi countri conflict emerg conflict, experienc humanitarian crises, weak fragil economi peacebuild post-war state-build could undermin reversed.",1,test
0,bring current polit crisi mali relat insurg sahel grave concern respond urgent provid unambigu support ongo effort initi econom commun west african state  ecowa .,1,test
0,"given magnitud impact covid-19 persist diseas burdens, aim invest health servic deliveri systems, sustain robust post covid-19 recoveri process. therefor seek addit grants, access financ technic assist develop partners, budget support, deliv much-need fiscal space.",1,test
0,"empower women girl central mygovernment’ medium-term nation develop plan. establish standalon ministri gender children’ affairs, develop nation gender equal women’ empower policy, support entrepreneurship econom inclusion,impl affirm polici women girl sectorsfrom educ agriculture, promot women’ health reduc matern child mortality, toughen sexual offenc laws, introduc one stop centr rape sexual offenc model courts.",1,test
0,"increas invest purpos infrastructur gener econom product improv standard living. construct resurfac roads, expand access carbon-neutr energi off-grid locations, extend ict penetration, improv access potabl water sanit facilities.",1,test
0,launch mitig protect strategi forestal advers effect climat chang especi vulner populations. urg intern cooper urgent implement pari agreement climat change.,1,test
0,"chair g7+ group countri bring togeth countri affect conflict fragility, sierra leon remain commit foster peaceful, just, inclus societies. among local action sierra leon taken foster goal ramp fight corrupt prepar establish perman commiss peac nation cohesion. follow pledg made 74th session august body, expung 55-year old law criminalis sediti libel. work close journalists, civil society, women’ groups, stakehold group nurtur strengthen democracy.",1,test
0,"grow broad support common african posit evid recent intergovernment negoti member state express affirm call correct histor injustic done africa. vein, would like encourag assembl address long-stand injustic adopt africa’ demand outlin ezulwini consensu sirt declaration. look forward construct engag build progress made past order achiev comprehens reform secur council session.",1,test
0,"sierra leon reiter commit multilater effort gear toward total elimin coloni form manifestation, support adopt decad plan action. remain true fundament principl unit nation fit purpose, becom absolut necessari releg chapter coloni histori within period 2021- 2030. global paradigm engagement, partnership, multilateralism, mutual respect aspir view peopl must prevail.",1,test
0,"let conclude, mr. president, reiter sierra leone’ call establish resili healthcar infrastructur servic curtail protect peopl risk covid-19. way intern commun reestablish confid stabil financi market creat right environ support global busi trade, investment, job creation. must put back track progress toward achiev sustain develop goals.",1,test
0,"pandem alreadi claim 1 million live — million lost dreams, million peopl mourn death love one million live forev changed. must continu work prevent number increasing. god grant prayer them.",1,test
0,"year ago gener assembly, mention urgent need chang format said fail so, assembl would becom irrelevant. subsequently, format gener assembl chang slightly, changed. chang caus histor pandemic, changed. result change? assembl becom even irrelevant. year becom irrelev relev even discussed.",1,test
0,"thank govern peopl unit states, help us transform public system 31 intens care unit one 1,000 multifunct units, send us 600 respirators, time short suppli world.",1,test
0,"also thank state peopl japan, without whose help would never abl establish largest hospit region one advanc largest hospit treat coronaviru diseas world. forev grate deep admir govern great peopl japan, societi exemplifi give servic world.",1,test
0,"behalf peopl el salvador also express heartfelt thank countries, repres privat enterpris volunt throughout world help continu help us. help enabl us continu save thousand lives, term pandemic, also future. everi life save save togeth repres gener save — hundr thousand futur live stori preserv thank recent action. thank god give us opportun everyon help us that.",1,test
0,"never human histori mani opportun abl want do, honest creat want create. network allow us instantli connect best mind anywher world. network enabl us connect peopl interests, aspir vision world. speak individual’ perspective. imagin humankind do.",1,test
0,"el salvador, tri time clean hous regard problem lie ahead, but, thank god, see tangibl results. help friendli countries, succeed drastic lower insecur indicators, includ homicides, extort robberies, among others. administration, save averag nine live day murder — nine famili mourn death love one. thank god achiev much faster thought possible.",1,test
0,"grate theme chosen session: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. theme give member state opportun construct contribut work gener assembly. covid-19 pandem probabl one arduou challeng histori unit nations. surely, violent blow countri endur — still endur — long time. one forget. san marino among countri sever affect pandemic. viru caus death last month country, reason celebrations. san marino remain one countri suffer highest rate infect world, dramat consequ community.",1,test
0,immens effort need contrast health emerg global econom contract result unpreced structur challeng country. succeed re-establish previou level wealth health intern solidar tremend effort peopl,1,test
0,"coronaviru continu spread across world, hit one countri other, infect million people, take hundr thousand lives. moreover, covid-19 caus widespread fear future. pandem health crisis, also humanitarian secur crisis, accentu pre-exist structur problem within among nations, coronaviru assail commun around world drove global economi downturn whose long-term effect cannot yet fulli assessed. human impact lockdown suspens social econom activ disproportion felt vulner countri groups, includ indigen peoples, ethnic minorities, person disabilities, women children. inadequ health system  gap social protect  structur inequ  environment degrad  climat crisis: pandem show us fragil world. unit nation lead respons health crisis, also expand mean lifesav humanitarian assist establish instrument rapid respons socio-econom impact.",1,test
0,"respect, san marino welcom strateg prepared respons plan address immedi health needs, produc who, global humanitarian respons plan eas impact 63 highli vulner countries, un covid-19 respons recoveri fund, socioeconom respons recoveri middle- lower-incom countries. republ san marino support un secretary-general’ call global cease-fire, issu 23 march, urg war parti corner world pull back hostilities. moreover, countri join secretari general’ global call emphas need end violenc women everywhere, includ home.",1,test
0,"number verifi violat children still worri education, one priorities, still attack. particularli worri impact covid-19 vulner group children arm conflicts.",1,test
0,"along pandemic, draw attent challeng misinform disinform pandemic. spread “infodemic” put health risk, increas risk conflicts, violence, human right violat mass atrocities. covid-19 crisi demonstr crucial need access free, reliable, trustworthy, factual, clear science-bas information. states, region organizations, un system stakehold media workers, social media platform ngo clear role respons help peopl deal “infodemic’. countri attach great import fight disinformation. reason, organ 2019, san marino, high-level confer danger disinformation. reason, join year cross-region statement “infodemic” context covid-19 support unit nation commun respons initi “verified” campaign announc un secretari gener april.",1,test
0,"effect climat change, includ increasingli frequent sever weather phenomena, flood droughts, diminish fresh water resources, desertification, land degrad sea-level rise, threaten entir populations, depriv livelihoods.",1,test
0,"effect climat chang lead inter alia food insecurity, large- scale displacement, social tensions, exacerbating, prolong contribut risk futur conflicts. although greenhous ga emiss project drop 6 per cent 2020, air qualiti improv result travel ban econom slowdown result pandemic, global commun far track meet either 1.5 2°c target call pari agreement. decad 2010 2019 warmest decad ever. govern privat sector must acceler transit climat relationship environ make transform chang economies.",1,test
0,"reduct food loss wast underpin achiev sustain develop three dimens — economic, social environmental. food- relat sustain practic innov solut instrument number major delic issues, poverti alleviation, hunger erad human health. san marino deem crucial curb food loss waste, sustain product consumpt practices. order achiev this, must recognis collect relev issues, emphasis need immedi effect action. why, togeth princip andorra, san marino 2019 sponsor resolut design 29 septemb intern day awar food loss waste.",1,test
0,today celebr first time anniversari would like take opportun urg join us — done alreadi — aim rais awar import reduc food loss wast contribut action sustain development.,1,test
0,"75 year foundation, unit nation face difficult challeng history. must stop pandem succeed work together, collect effort requir renew stronger multilater cooperation.",1,test
0,"stronger multilater essenti want build fair, peac societies, young peopl live dignity, women opportun men, minor vulner group protected.",1,test
0,"assess way forward achiev agre sustain develop goal 2030 midst global covid-19 pandemic, must also re-examin futur want unit nation need attain it. covid-19 devast lesson loudest possibl wake-up call need global cooperation, effect partnership firm commit multilater confront together. covid-19 recogn borders, nationality, gender econom statu nation individu — equal victims. therefore, unifi solut must found protect everi human it.",1,test
0,"somalia, govern peopl work close togeth mitig worst effect covid-19 pandemic. like govern across world, priorit health citizen much possibl save lives. direct medic provis consistent, updat effect public health information, govern utmost keep popul safe possible. covid-19 cases, rise quickli earli stage pandemic, fallen steadili result government’ swift actions.",1,test
0,"again, success respons would possibl without effect partnership government, citizen intern partners. want pay special tribut courag duti health personnel risk live save others. also recogn patienc contribut somali privat sector, work govern keep economi functioning, provid vital servic somali peopl critic hour need.",1,test
0,"yet, success common effort somalia mean unscathed. accord offici statistics, 3,000 somali infect viru around 100 tragic lost live result. mani diagnos live pain suffer covid-19 other still remain vulner given weak somalia’ overstretch health system infrastructure.",1,test
0,"across world, economi size sever impact covid-19 vulner affect most. somalia, like everywher els world, challeng pain contract economy, job loss need continu invest essenti basic public servic protect citizen deadli virus. appreciate, huge task recov post-conflict state like somalia govern remain steadfast rise respond divers challeng lie ahead.",1,test
0,"reiter import confront covid-19 effect multilater action, want recogn enabl econom financi support provid somali feder govern mitig worst covid-19 econom pressur intern financi institut mani multilater institut somalia success reach decis point attain debt relief mani major intern creditors. progress toward achiev debt cancel enabl econom reforms, remain cogniz somalia’ econom futur prosper peopl close interlink rest world. regard, futur want somalia one promot greater partnership intern trade, enhanc foreign direct invest key product sector potenti feed world develop human capit creat opportun us all. unit nation need inclus global multilater platform propel idea aspir chang realiz too. covid-19 econom challeng us sustain develop goal ever realized, world must recov better, all, together.",1,test
0,"global crise like covid-19 pandem provid opportun renew challeng overcome. seen devast health econom impact viru feel live pain results. nation, matter well resourced, immune. yet, despit common suffer pain, fear covid-19 has, continu to, exacerb alreadi exist gulf developed, develop fragil state make un family. someth must avoid cost tackl today’ major global challenges, includ insecurity, climat change, poverti increas inequality, driver much divis discont across world, depend effect cooper multilater action bring sustain develop goal fruition.",1,test
0,"also success defeat menac global terror effort brave arm forc collabor amisom intern partner make world safer place. confid government’ effort continu support import intern partners, somalia confront covid-19 contribut posit multilater effort requir make world better, resili equal place all.",1,test
0,"conclusion, unit nation famili nation compris membership must work togeth renew partnership confront covid-19. must also continu engag posit creat inclus prosper futur want unit nation need. regard, we, somalia, reaffirm commit multilater overcom common global obstacl capit everi opportun creat better, safer equal world.your excellencies,",1,test
0,"topic year’ debat remind us import multilater found princip unit nations. firmli believ joint actions, mutual harmon respect, answer found face global challeng ongo pandem communic diseas covid-19.",1,test
0,"pandem addit emphas need close intens intern cooperation, wherebi un special agenc organizations, like world health organization, irreplac role organ respons newli occur challeng health nature, also socio-economic, polit secur dimension.",1,test
0,covid-19 pandem strongli confirm need necess exist strengthen role unit nations. relev forum must never questioned.,1,test
0,"firmli believ mutual cooperation, harmon posit mutual respect, global respons face modern plagu found.",1,test
0,"regard, exist situat opportun must take promot system intern coordin support.",1,test
0,"even though pandem shaken strongest world economies, say serbia manag keep stabl budget, well entir fiscal monetari system fulli prepar withhold assist measur economy, open potenti invest plans.",1,test
0,"invest huge effort order help surviv economy, firstli thank disciplin respons manag public finance. despit crisi effects, serbia excel result economi first two quarter year strong reason believ end year remain among stabl economi europe.",1,test
0,"awar serious complex problem relat neighbor commit resolv exclus dialogue, take consider interest interest parties.",1,test
0,"pleas even difficult period caus covid-19 pandem high level mutual solidar region demonstrated, great extent precis result construct proactiv relationship serbia build previou year neighbors. cooper intens region countri relat repatri citizen relat issu humanitarian medic assistance, also regular suppli goods.",1,test
0,"decis establish “green corridors” region use one, enabl smooth transport assistance, without delay border administr cross points.",1,test
0,"take opportun underlin prais construct import role administr presid unit state america donald trump play reach agreement, import signal commit find last sustain solut import issue.",1,test
0,"adopt sustain develop agenda 2030 well pari climat chang agreement key step face biggest challeng today — global econom instability, grow social inequ climat chang effects.",1,test
0,"that, unilater action provision institut self-govern pristina declar independ so-cal kosovo, un sc resolut 1244  1999  violat stabil republ serbia, also entir region, serious endangered. let remind republ serbia fulli commit find compromis solut issu kosovo metohija. polit respons one  everyth protect interest people, also region peac stability.",1,test
0,"like alreadi said, republ serbia within group big countries, neither territori population. but, judg cultur contribut science, countri among develop nations.",1,test
0,"finally, could fail express appreci mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, competence, selflessness, zeal led organization.",1,test
0,theme chosen 75th session gener assembl pertin current moment experienc world. convinc multilater best way us combin effort togeth mitig effect econom financi crisi covid-19 pandem impos world.,1,test
0,"believ multilater allow us overcom enorm challeng face world. indeed, health crisi caus covid-19 pandem ravag world shown us combin effort intern solidar help us mitig nefari worldwid impacts.",1,test
0,"must lose sight unceas struggl poverty. view, greatest scourg humanity, main caus famine, soil degradation, unbridl exploit natur resources, arm conflicts, popul displacements, south-north migratori flow continu toll human lives.",1,test
0,"therefore, take privileg opportun reaffirm support renew multilater cooper behalf peopl serve, multilateralism, solidarity, effect combat effect poverti mainten intern peac security, indispens condit inclus sustain development.",1,test
0,"polit militari conflict persist central african republic, eastern provinc democrat republ congo, south sudan, libya, sahel, emerg terrorist groups, action terrorist group el chebab east africa boko haram central west africa.",1,test
0,"concern apprehens respect flare-up violenc mozambican provinc cabo delgado, call greater intern commun involv fight tragic terrorist action region mozambique.",1,test
0,"economic, trade, financi embargo impos cuba mani year ago continu be, view, anoth caus major concern. reason, sao tome & princip reiter call sanction lift order allow cuba face challeng econom social develop without constraint impos unfair sanction take better advantag opportun trade relat equal foot member state organization.",1,test
0,"persist violent extrem must continu receiv attent detriment equal import challeng human existence, reflect sustain develop goals, combat poverty, climat change, sea piracy, among others.",1,test
0,"planet profoundli distress covid-19 pandem caus new coronavirus, incalcul consequ health social econom terms.",1,test
0,"light high mortal level devast effect disease, high rate spread, must continu use mechan multilater offer us term intern solidarity, order intensifi combat disease, deter loss human lives, relaunch econom develop process countries.",1,test
0,"seem indisput us reason exist unit nation mainten peac secur world, essenti foster development.",1,test
0,"sao tome & princip prepar graduat categori medium- incom countri decemb 2024, fact proud, reflect recognit effort countri undertaken progress achiev key area sustain development.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem is, apart human toll, turn food suppli chain upsid down, paralys economi erod consum purchas power.",1,test
0,"unit nation world econom situat prospect  wesp  mid 2020 report, confirm leader commun experienced, pandem unleash health econom crisi unpreced scope magnitude.",1,test
0,"compel us intern commun embrac multilater effect way win battl best defens futur global threats, continu seek effect mean support small vulner nations.",1,test
0,"time, un instrument bring world togeth defend human rights, democraci democrat institutions, uphold rule law, good governance, sustain peac secur advanc path toward realiz 17 sustain develop goals.",1,test
0,"surinam focu strongli gener invest busi opportunities. mainli reason administr develop act widest implement sdg number 17, promot facilit clean corrupt free public privat partnership  ppp .",1,test
0,"believ global strateg collabor complimentari financi — econom approach required. achiev closer partnership imf, world bank wto.",1,test
0,"consequently, south-south cooperation, exclus north-south relations, explor expand articul promot collect econom busi interests.",1,test
0,unusu gather today prove ongo covid-19 pandem chang world know it. onlin form evid adapt act.,1,test
0,covid-19 pandem quickli becom truli global threat. far over. alreadi learn lesson: cannot go back busi usual.,1,test
0,covid crisi expos weak vulnerabilities. alreadi brink poverti left poor. difficult access health care found helpless. limit access educ lost hope better future. even stabl develop state face great econom social difficulties.,1,test
0,"success avert crisis, need respons leadership. ultim respons govern polit leader make decis base fact knowledge, polit calcul selfish interest power. opposit — incompetence, disinform popul — fatal consequences.",1,test
0,"respons leadership also mean willing seeth common global interest. preserv best exist architectur intern organ regim cooperation. often driver effect solutions. know work alway perfect. instead resent defund them, need find way improv them.",1,test
0,"must allow crisi becom excus suppress human right liberties. must make sure limit must proportionate, time-limit legal sound. principl must appli universally.",1,test
0,"notabl climat change, undoubtedli greatest threat common future. expert estimate, 2100 climat chang five time deadli covid-19. abl organ creat 20 parallel team worldwid develop anti-covid vaccine, lack much need knowledge. climat change, know do. need show genuin act together, one. make real priority. let science, innovations, also solidar compass lead way.",1,test
0,"let' make lesson covid-19 basi action future. like 75 year ago, lesson two world war led univers commit among nation solv disput peac work together.",1,test
0,best mean address current global threat effect multilateralism. less multilater cooper would magnifi problem challeng face societies.,1,test
0,new technolog artifici intellig alreadi becom backbon daili live keep busi essenti public servic running.,1,test
0,slovenia share awar biodivers loss urgent global challenge.,1,test
0,put right clean drink water constitution. recogn preserv water resourc key element protect biodiversity.,1,test
0,"covid-19 crisi brought stark realiz import solidar cooper — among within multilater organizations, world health organization.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem left devast social econom consequences. live depend accur time information. full exercis right freedom expression, access public inform protect journalist key wellb societies.",1,test
0,"we, un institution, chang grow it. convinc best address global challeng joint action.",1,test
0,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nation midst global pandem — pandem place enorm pressur societies, commun families. would like express deepest condol live lost.",1,test
0,rare opportun build better societi — societi resilient. opportun jointli address share challenges:,1,test
0,"continu work industri sector achiev net-zero emissions, least within “leadership group industri transition” launch india last year’ climat summit. call ambiti nation determin contribut pari agreement. work ambiti outcom cop26 glasgow.",1,test
0,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations, need strengthen resolv ensur one left behind. ensur equal particip everi individual, irrespect gender sexual orientation, essenti realis 2030 agenda.",1,test
0,current pandem exacerb exist discrimin inequ risk sexual gender-bas violence. disproportion impact women’ girls’ access essenti health services. robust fund sexual reproduct health right must priority.,1,test
0,"pandem place enorm pressur abil democrat institut function seriou consequ human rights. far mani leader govern use pretext attempt silenc opposition, civil societi human right defenders.",1,test
0,"million peopl around world lost job livelihood pandemic. social dialogu workplac help mitig impact pandem shape solutions. need sustain transit global labour market, issu work close presid south africa, cyril ramaphosa, co-edit ilo report futur work. sweden invit countri join global deal partnership decent work inclus growth.",1,test
0,"pandem threat intern peac security. sweden eu strongli support implement secretary-general’ call global ceasefire. un secur council enorm responsibility. succeed mandat task up-hold intern peac security, must reform effect address current futur challenges.",1,test
0,"russia’ illeg annex crimea sevastopol aggress eastern ukrain constitut seriou breach intern law, challeng global secur caus human suffering. european union clear need implement minsk agreements. sweden european union condemn strongest possibl term poison russian opposit leader alexei navalny. russian govern must investig assassin attempt thoroughli transparently. respons must brought justice.",1,test
0,"syria, sustain peac achiev polit solut line resolut 2254  2015 . sweden recent pledg 96 million dollar crisi respons brussel 4 conference.",1,test
0,"part multilater disarma diplomacy, sweden — togeth 15 non-nuclear-weapon state — continu pursu stockholm initi nuclear disarmament, aim contribut success npt review conference.",1,test
0,"commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, proper reflect are, come going. unit nation stood lofti ideal build intern system collabor common purpose. system allow us collect call account choos conflict peace, recogn digniti equal worth people. valu everi one us input make toward end.",1,test
0,"though face multipl challenges, collective, press forward, slowly, steadily, forg agre system rule norm better, stronger, transpar consist ever before. result intern order overseen unparallel advanc human liberty, attain digniti amongst peoples, given rise prosper global economi sought uplift billion peopl poverty.",1,test
0,"common accept multilater diplomaci underpin advanc three pillar unit nations, namely, sustain development, peac secur human rights, interlink mutual reinforcing, observ respect specif mandat charter unit nations.",1,test
0,"continu seek solut individu manner, result impasse. organ becom necessari ever foster kind collect action today’ global challenges.",1,test
0,"global challeng crise tendenc either pull us togeth push us apart  true form, covid-19 crisi creat unpreced bond among countries. crisi taught remind us belong together, irrespect location, distanc time planet. time histori reflect focu must candid transform deepli explor lesson learnt therefore, rethink gener shape futur want. therefore, opportun time ask big questions, make great decis commit act solidarity.",1,test
0,"intens crisi demonstr glare socio-econom gap within countries. better defin expos uniqu financi human resourc endow strength, capac abil cope challenges. pandem underscor individu strength weak without collect differenti commit solidarity. reiter re-emphas live global villag therefore, need other. conclud that, without collect commit multilateralism, never accomplish ideal “decad action delivery” pinnacl 2030 agenda — leav one behind.",1,test
0,"make unit nation work us all, call collect commit individual, communal, national, region global levels. pandem also demonstr weak classif develop levels, jeopard mani countries’ opportun access develop financ debt restructuring, among others. reveal need revis extend countries’ success develop beyond tradit measur gross nation income, fulli consid vulnerability, particularli crise experiencing. everi country’ need must consid isolation, tackl multilater context. help us collect commit bottom- multilater help us collect progress futur want unit nation need.",1,test
0,"‘unit nation’, must dissuad tension nation creat play pandemic. everi public privat institut must readi promot intern cooperation, get better prepar deal futur global threat commit multilateralism. covid-19 gener strong global viewpoint peopl dread think backward inward think forward outward, hope creat world want. achiev effect all-benefit multilater build back better togeth call ensur one left behind. entail leverag exist innov partnerships, coordin responses, refrain protectionist measures, strengthen inclusion, invest technolog sustain econom social sector midst crises, among other",1,test
0,"regard, pleas note govern kingdom eswatini adopt numer pro-gend polici promot gender equality. femal represent posit power decision-mak compar favor within region.",1,test
0,"reform secur council key aspect process transform could complet without fundament reform. end, kingdom eswatini wish reiter africa’ call perman membership secur council accord ezulwini consensus.",1,test
0,"rare unit nation multilater test test year un’ 75th anniversary, year world grappl covid-19 pandemic.",1,test
0,pain lesson learn sinc outbreak pandem underscor urgent need continu collect approaches.,1,test
0,"say revitalis exist set-up has, despit lesson past outbreak viruses, fail respond adequ covid-19 devast consequences.",1,test
0,"introduc seri unpreced measur save live peopl mitig econom destruction,minimis unemploy secur workers’ incomes. ensur inclus approach factor specif need differ stakehold seychelles, consult privat sector, trade unions, civil societi inter-faith organis required.",1,test
0,"took us 44 year sinc seychelles’ independ attain qualiti life enjoy covid-19, 4 month covid-19 paralys tourism industri much economy.",1,test
0,"turn multilater theme debat  multilater recognis crucial globally-coordin respons covid-19 us emerg pandem resilient, hopefully, compassionate.",1,test
0,sid made heroic effort shore job unemploy grow provid social safeti net peopl respons covid-19 limit capac resourc have.,1,test
0,"action includ build capac small island develop state cope recov extern shock pandem like covid-19, form disasters, impact climat change.",1,test
0,"compact requir design new, enhanc exist financi instrument guid sid economi current crisis, creat respons system maintain gains, reinforc resili climat chang achiev sustain development.",1,test
0,massiv global econom restructur underway present world uniqu opportun pursu holist transform approach address numer escal global crise face make effici use resources.,1,test
0,recoveri effort aim take us sustain resili futur requir recognit econom recoveri depend ecolog health. reviv econom activ expens environment sustainability.,1,test
0,"one job seychel offer worker made redund covid-19, example, plant hundr thousand tree across islands. measur keep call world’ scientist protect natur environ costs. restor planetari health balanc human ecolog wellbeing.",1,test
0,adopt similar approach climat action maintain increas climat ambit context pandem prevent post-covid rebound greenhous ga emissions.,1,test
0,"effect climat breakdown continu impact us long we’v dealt pandemic, covid-19 present new opportun take action climat chang countri make drastic chang infrastructure, job investment.",1,test
0,"seychelles’ protect nearli third eez ocean conservation, sustain climat action show countries’ respons health financi crisi caus covid19 need expens natur climate.",1,test
0,"seychel agre need intern solidar cooper ever face worst human econom crisi lifetime, multilater work develop develop countries.",1,test
0,"must lose sight fact stimulu packag aim rescu economi coronaviru crisi determin shape global economi — financi stable, social inclus low-carbon economi — year come.",1,test
0,"go talk multilater count everyone, must deliv equit recoveri prioritis innovation, science, health, wellbeing, opportun liveabl environ countri societies.",1,test
0,futur multilater depend transform global respons covid 19 pandemic.,1,test
0,"thank all.th unit nation born second world war global consensu need maintain intern peac secur promot friendli relat nations. relat base respect equal right peopl self-determination, without resort forc threat forc territori integr polit independ nation manner inconsist unit nation principles. this? principl valu truli govern today’ intern relations? becom mere talk point polit media consumption?",1,test
0,"today’ imper combat pandem togeth multilater joint action, deed word alone, build equal world, better equip withstand crise achiev real sustain develop all.",1,test
0,"keep repeat statement terror constant danger stabil prosper across world one main threat intern peac security. unfortunately, some, many, act statements. relev secur council resolut yet find way un archiv implementation. joint action haven’t risen meet threat pose terrorism. contrary, invest in, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorist one region anoth one countri another, servic suspici agendas.",1,test
0,"course, come sponsor financi terrorism, current turkish regim reign supreme. turkish regim one main sponsor terror syria region. facilit passag ten thousand foreign terrorist syria continu provid form support al-nusra front affili terrorist group massacr syrians. carri ‘turkification’ forc displac polici territori occupi syria. consid collect punish million civilian reject turkish occup hasakah dozen towns, turkish regim deliber repeatedli cut city’ water supply, endang live civilians, especi covid-19 pandemic. legal terms, amount war crime crime humanity. way, crimin behavior terrorist exhibit cut water suppli million civilian damascu 2017. then, like today, self-styl human right defend even lift finger.",1,test
0,"violat iraq’ sovereignty, use refuge bargain chip europe, laid claim forc energi resourc mediterranean. current turkish regim becom rogu outlaw regim intern law. polici actions, threaten secur stabil whole region, must stopped.",1,test
0,"“i would like acknowledg leadership excel mr. matamela cyril ramaphosa, presid republ south africa chairperson african union, well african union commission. abl put continent strategi place respond pandem take time measur aim pool medic suppli member states, safeguard african economi research vaccin covid-19, inter alia.",1,test
0,"“the revis format year’ gener debat perfect illustration, needed, scale upheav world caus covid-19 pandemic, unfortun continu rage. invis relentless enemi caus enorm human damage, also profound impact aspect econom social life, put nation global respons capac test.",1,test
0,"“the highli relev theme session, ‘the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action’, fulli underlin import must attach intern cooper multilater irreplac mean address major common challeng pandemics, climat change, terrorism, poverti inequality, name few.",1,test
0,"“the covid-19 crisi laid bare common weak and, time, demonstr need enhanc collect effort better understand overcom global challeng benefit everi one us. opportun great famili nations, celebr seventy-fifth anniversari organ current particular context, reaffirm central place unit nation primordi role multilater intern relations.",1,test
0,"“the whole world current experienc devast covid-19 pandemic, abil deal vari country. develop countries, particularli african ones, owe multipl structur weaknesses, expos advers consequ scourge.",1,test
0,"“a landlock sahelian country, alreadi confront number crises, chad suffer full-on mani repercuss pandem variou level nation life. attend country’ nation prioriti upended, state’ limit resourc redirect deal first foremost health, humanitarian socioeconom emergencies.",1,test
0,"“chad’ nation develop plan, firmli support donor round tabl held pari 2017, seen expect result owe low level anticip resources. therefore, order support govern effort promot sustain development, honour pledg financ effort crucial chad, current prepar second nation develop plan.",1,test
0,"“the intern community, particular un, must increas momentum doubl effort ensur develop african continent, greatest number least develop countri located, place centr intern prioriti concret action reflect commitment. increas involv un, whose leadership crucial ever renew commit stakehold make possibl provid decis impetu requir mobil resourc need achiev promis 2030 agenda support countri alreadi path achiev 17 sustain develop goals.",1,test
0,"“in regard, fit recal debt alreadi major handicap pandem accentuated. african develop bank noted, nearli 50 million addit peopl could risk fall extrem poverti africa 2020. moreover, africa’ loss result pandem reach sever hundr billion dollar period 2020 2021. mani countri could forc borrow, aggrav debt burden.",1,test
0,"“at time world face coronavirus, terror continu rage ground africa, particularli lake chad basin sahelo-saharan region, claim innoc victim daili basi serious compromis develop effort countri region.",1,test
0,"“such case deadli 23 march attack perpetr boko haram chadian defenc secur forc boma lac province. vigor respons launch forces, led clear island lake chad boko haram terrorist elements.",1,test
0,“we therefor call intern commun greater sustain support multin joint task forc lake chad basin g-5 sahel joint forc establish countri region combat boko haram jihadist group sahel.,1,test
0,“that compound low level synergi among variou initi forc present sahel. therefor believ time translat word action sahel honour pledg contribut marshal addit resourc make g-5 joint forc fulli oper implement develop project g-5 sahel prioriti invest programme.,1,test
0,"“furthermore, welcom launch coalit sahel, base agreement among g-5 sahel countri partner pool effort resourc combat terrorism.",1,test
0,"“in regard, import continu work strengthen coher goal activ initi support g-5 sahel order respond effect challeng produc tangibl result ground term secur development.",1,test
0,"“concern issu climat change, chad — sahelian countri subject harm effect existenti threat, strongli affect sector make foundat economi — remain commit implement pari agreement climat change.",1,test
0,"“at intern level, welcom ceasefir libya, declar simultan presid presid council govern nation accord speaker hous representatives. chad reiter call secur council shoulder respons end extern interference. urg libyan stakehold respect ceasefir resolut engag process inclus negoti lead true nation reconciliation.",1,test
0,"“with regard sudan, chad welcom sign peac agreement among sudanes parti 31 august juba thank mediat efforts, chad stakeholder, leadership presid salva kiir mayardit republ south sudan, whose person involv commend.",1,test
0,"“chad call arm movement join process order achiev comprehens last peace, sudanes peopl greatli need.",1,test
0,"“concern tension surround great renaiss dam ethiopia, chad call brotherli govern egypt, ethiopia sudan continu priorit dialogu order reach negoti solut aegi african union.",1,test
0,"come end, year 2020 undoubtedli seen one difficult histori term public-health crisi brought coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandemic, spread world, caus untold human suffering. expos mani unforeseen vulner among intern commun caus unpreced econom crisis. deliber assembl still search last cure plague. would like take opportun pay tribut memori victim viru commend extraordinari work healthcar worker everi countri save million lives.",1,test
0,"session therefor take place extrem unusu context world disrupt ever. human tragedi result put multilater test urg us act resolut togeth halt scourge. welcom choic theme session gener assembly, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — address covid-19 effect multilater action”. mani ways, theme emblemat overal environ anxiety, compel us unit solidar determined. covid-19 pandem requir immens sacrific us, success halt crisi depend willing unit effort counter pandem prevent popul fall back extrem poverty. unfortun fact covid-19 pandem slow effort meet sever sustain develop goals, includ area health, hunger decent work. therefor imper intern commun adopt concerted, global coher approach respond appropri pandemic. regard, commend initi secretary-gener who, begin pandemic, launch global respons unit nation system address pandem guid state safeguard advers consequ pandemic.",1,test
0,"establish owe virus’ highli contagi nature, prevent measur take today suffici counter eventu elimin it. vaccin therefor continu last solution. regard, countri encourag research way throughout world achiev goal. although promising, alreadi deal issu access futur vaccines. true pharmaceut compani commit enorm financi resourc end, must sacrific human econom profit. therefor need ensur access futur covid-19 vaccin equitable, afford subject market forces. accordingly, welcom adopt resolut wha73.1 gener assembl world health organ  , pursuant member state provid full access vaccin relat medicin shall timely, equitable, high quality, safe afford all. countri also welcom covax facil initi launch — mechan group purchas eventu covid-19 vaccines, coordin global allianc vaccin immun — guarante everi particip countri fair equit access vaccin alloc framework intend set up.",1,test
0,"african continent, confront cruelti poverti endem cyclic natur scourges, also see worri spread disease. order counter that, african union implement control-and-prevent strategy, recommend africa centr diseas control prevention, cost whose implement alon estim $200 billion. also establish african medic suppli platform improv provis covid-19-rel medic equip supplies, access becom increasingli difficult owe strong market demand. regard, welcom partnership unit nation african union address challeng pose pandemic. countri believ secretary-general’ call leader group 20 adopt recoveri plan develop countries, well call debt suspens cancellation, result action taken.",1,test
0,"framework covid-19 response, first case diseas diagnosed, 6 march, togo set crisi committee, person chair presid republic, nation coordin response, manag committe scientif committee. view disease’ long-term socioeconom impact, govern also launch nation solidar econom recoveri fund total 400 billion cfa francs, approxim $665 million. measur taken involv prevent social distancing, case detection, compulsori wear mask educ awareness-rais among population. also shut variou area country, establish curfew, close borders, school univers ban gatherings.",1,test
0,"regard health care, govern open dedic centr lome country’ econom regions, train personnel suppli critic laboratory, medic protect equipment. scientif committe develop treatment plan. taken variou social measur benefit population, particularli vulner sectors, order mitig impact pandem — reduc cost water electricity, remov tax basic needs, provid food distribut subsid disadvantag citizen novissi cash transfer programme, and, lastly, support businesses. would therefor like take opportun express sincer thank variou partner assist togo fight pandemic.",1,test
0,"commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation year, fit note institut made great progress area peacebuilding, respect human right promot truli sustain development, despit prejudic overcome. one organization’ major achiev area promot peac security, peacekeep oper help save mani live restor stabil secur world plagu conflict emerg threat terror violent extremism. peacekeep operations, one major troop-contribut countri togo activ participant, enhanc improv time. right occas welcom fact move resolut increasingli toward prevent multidimension approach.",1,test
0,"area development, organization’ adopt 2015 2030 agenda sustain develop still far ambiti tool ensur peoples’ welfare. 2030 agenda, capit experi gain millennium develop goals, integr three dimens sustain develop — economic, social environment — crosscut approach. organ also excel promot human rights. intern human right standard accordingli flourish variou areas, especi regard women children.",1,test
0,"however, success must blind us fact organ still face mani challenges. activ intern cooper intern solidar help us deal effect successfully. yet banish spectr war arm conflict forms. nowaday conflict taken new form, driven non- state actor amorph network fuel terror religi extremism, includ countri sahel region central africa. moreover, climat change, especi destruct weather event recent seen africa, migrat crisi challeng organ must meet bold sustain respons achiev ideal found on.",1,test
0,"peoples’ expect high pressing, countri urg state assum respons meet commit take action, which, blunt, entail revit reform organization, particularli princip organs, includ secur council, order make repres better adapt demand time. firmli believ greater transparency, justice, equiti democracy, strict respect sovereign equal digniti states, particularli africa, enabl organ write new chapter existence. end, must give temptat turn inwardli nations. let us rather move forward togeth unit hope peac develop peopl remain firmli committed.mr. president,",1,test
0,"throughout past 75 years, unit nation member state relentlessli overcom global challenges. year, world face health crisi spread covid-19 wide affect live condit peopl well econom social system — overshadow special natur 75th anniversari unit nations. indeed, great challeng shall litmu test faith multilater uniti member state provid sustain solut overcom threat.",1,test
0,"1 million villag health volunt throughout countri play vital role patients, regardless nationality, guarante equal access medic treatment. furthermore, royal thai govern also fulli support strategi covid-19 vaccin development. thailand start vaccin research programm sinc quit time also foster collabor intern partners. regard, urg covid-19 vaccin medicin consid ‘global public goods’ access all. unit nation must play import role matter.",1,test
0,"furthermore, royal thai govern also introduc econom respons packag reliev financi burden peopl busi operators, whether low-incom groups, women entrepreneurs, farmers, vulner group ensur guarante equal access govern assistance. effort focus boost financi liquid entrepreneur sustain businesses. regard, set “centr econom situat administration”  cesa  act main mechan formul comprehens polici econom social rehabilit synerg effort public privat sectors.",1,test
0,"democrat society, thailand place peopl centre. peopl provid vital social synergi help drive nation agendas, integr sector country. cooper generos thai peopl time crisis, impact outbreak minim situat brought control. note, wish thank world health organ recogn thailand one countri provid effect respons covid-19. however, continu remind sector public underestim situat remain vigil prevent second outbreak.",1,test
0,"key factor behind thailand’ achiev pandem control role model effect healthcar manag determin polit develop robust healthcar system univers health coverag scheme. recognis healthi popul import forc drive nation develop toward security, prosper sustainability. regard, thailand share knowledg experi interest countri foreign polici global health  fpgh  initiative.",1,test
0,"occas 75th anniversari unit nations, take opportun assess previou success failures. although unit nation abl solv global problem faced, becom clear multilater inclus prevent larg scale arm conflict, protect world arbitrari exercis power. therefor commit strengthen multilater system cooper framework unit nation order respond chang world situation, new global challenges, live expect new generation. unit nation desire, unit nation need.",1,test
0,"development, ten year remain acceler action achiev sustain develop goal  sdg  2030. however, covid-19 pandem one key factor delay achievement. must, therefore, work harder, cooper closer promot develop path peopl centre. must also priorit particip stakehold emphas util technolog development.",1,test
0,"human rights, intern agreement instrument establish principl oblig protect human rights, rule law, good governance, emphasi vulner group children, elderly, person disabilities, low-incom earners, well migrant workers. therefor respons remain commit oblig continu ensur progress implementation. thailand, current implement 4th nation human right plan results-ori mindset. also proud thailand first countri asia enact nation action plan busi human rights, implement sinc 2019.",1,test
0,"crisi necessarili bring suffering. time, teach us use lesson help us develop stronger effect respons futur challenges. “new normal” futur social landscap look like depend sole generation, also youth new generations. togeth must creat space gener join hand collabor order plan futur want.",1,test
0,"finally, take opportun reaffirm thailand’ commit support agenda unit nations, peac security, development, climat chang management, commit human rights, promot partnership variou sectors. multilater guid us crisi together, done throughout 75 years, futur peac prevail better world futur generations.",1,test
0,"current situat world becom complicated, volatil turbul background grow geopolitical, geo-econom competit extens modern threat challenges, particularli spread coronaviru disease.",1,test
0,covid-19 initi appear healthcar crisi gradual turn justifi global socio-econom financi crisis. state affair current situat certainli requir activ coordin actions.,1,test
0,"welcom tireless effort made un secretary-general, unit nation special agencies, foundat programm provid immedi long-term assist member state tackl humanitarian socio-econom repercuss covid-19 pandemic.",1,test
0,"view prevent spread diseas today exert massiv effort increas necessari volum medic medic equip end time undertak effect measur cooper world health organization, countri develop partners.",1,test
0,"coronaviru outbreak led recess area nation economy, includ obstruct invest operations, foreign direct invest inflow, domest foreign trade, tourism services, particularli transport sector.",1,test
0,"take consider ongo process pandem impact, govern tajikistan along prevent spread infecti diseas exert effort undertak necessari measur aim ensur consist sustain oper socioeconom sector country.",1,test
0,"terrorist extremist group pose tremend challeng nation security, serious jeopard stabil countri differ regions.",1,test
0,"elimin menac terror necessit clear percept motiv root caus promot terrorism, well common global approach toward definit terrorism.",1,test
0,bold drastic measur commonli undertaken within intern law avoid doubl standard polici recogn yet anoth import factor tackl challenges.,1,test
0,commenc cooper intern organ region partner institut elabor two strategi paper new period clear evid success achiev direction.,1,test
0,"success joint concert action aim prevent resolut conflicts, explor peac way address crise confrontations, first foremost depend effect use prevent diplomaci mediation.",1,test
0,"tajikistan experienc horror impos civil war, valu well percept import overwhelm protect peace.",1,test
0,"given experi countri gain counter terrorism, extrem illeg drug traffick view introduc tajik peac experi determin nomin first time tajikistan’ candidaci non-perman seat un secur council 2028-2029.",1,test
0,"escal alarm situat countri urg intern commun undertak extra measur coordin action fight terrorism, cope drug manufactur traffick narcotics, likewis deliv time assist govern peopl afghanistan.",1,test
0,"however, econom financi indic countri sever neg consequ covid-19 call question time implement sustain develop goals, particularli develop countries.",1,test
0,"hope decad action deliv global goal help seek way sustain solut press global challenges, climat change, poverty, gender inequ financing.",1,test
0,"tajikistan 93 per cent territori cover mountains, bear loss equal hundr million dollar annual result water-rel disasters.",1,test
0,"year, due low precipit winter seen signific declin water stock region’ rivers, turn led low-wat season irrig caus sever drought.",1,test
0,connect would like call unit nation intern region organ support tajikistan expedit glacier central asia.,1,test
0,"1.	encourag widespread use renew energi sources, would facilit friendli environ “green” economi development.",1,test
0,5.	the deliveri comprehens financi technic assist develop countri intern organ develop least develop countri monitor preserv glacier sourc water.,1,test
0,owe support un member state abl reviv strengthen global water agenda past decades.,1,test
0,"also express admir gratitud doctors, paramedics, nurses, technic staff, volunteers, work selflessli mani month save live health peopl differ part world.",1,test
0,"yes, today speak first new danger face human twenty-first century. short time, covid-19 becom real perhap threaten challeng time. global challeng recogn borders, races, nationalities, detriment effect sphere civiliz development. perhap whole world felt vulner common threat sever first time mani decades. hope believ uniti solidar overcom defeat allow mankind becom renewed, wiser, respons farsight battle. even though current period difficult controversi give us chanc chang better sake entir planet’ destiny. highest polit moral duti miss chance, show dignity, solidar true humanism.",1,test
0,"turkmenistan activ began take necessari measur counter threat begin spread pandem world. effect protect measur taken time, unifi nation strategi combat coronaviru infect formed, consist set measur organizational, legal, financial, economic, medic sanitari quarantin character.",1,test
0,"take account initi secretari general, turkmenistan approv nation plan prepared prevent respons acut infecti diseas state level. plan oper social econom measur turkmenistan counteract coronaviru pandem also develop adopted.",1,test
0,close profession coordin joint effort medic scientif commun around world necessari ever fast victori pandemic.,1,test
0,"convinc today need comprehensive, systemat purpos multilater cooper problem danger viral diseases, full launch scientif diplomaci channels. regard, turkmenistan propos consid develop establish appropri intern instruments.",1,test
0,"coronaviru pandem signific neg impact cours direct global economi serious undermin global community’ effort achiev sustain develop goals. context, look forward intensifi cooper aim restor econom trade relations. today necessari creat platform put global economi sustain growth trajectory. opinion, energy, transport, industri trade becom key areas.",1,test
0,"context, 75th session, turkmenistan intend intensifi work elabor intern legal instrument un field stabil reliabl energi transit.",1,test
0,"world trade organ take proactiv role work restor world economi promot trade investment. recent obtain observ statu wto, turkmenistan activ use opportun open regard promot practic measur overcom quickli crisi phenomena world economy, transit posit dynamics.",1,test
0,"coronaviru pandem affect extent mani countri world. however, serious danger disadvantag region perspect ecology. unfortunately, plenti territori map imposs mention one speech. therefore, would like touch upon issue, highli relev central asian state nations. aral sea disaster.",1,test
0,"situat escal amidst pandemic, threaten life health peopl risk epidem outbreak consider risen. circumst urg world commun pay close attent problem aral sea aral sea region.",1,test
0,"may speak plainly, insuffici today. necessari detail work save aral sea concret practic assist support provid peopl live there. thus, strongli believ that, subject aral sea need systemat comprehens approach well relev legal document issu set separ direct un activities. regard, turkmenistan put forward initi creat special program aral sea basin.",1,test
0,"deep concern disregard intern law wit lately. view current situat necessari consolid effort aim strengthen role intern law, multilater legal instrument global secur system, strict complianc state gener accept norm deriv un charter. way could sustain stabil predict global polit mitig risk conflicts.",1,test
0,"follow logic neutral polici turkmenistan intend submit draft resolut “the role unit nation region centr prevent diplomaci central asia” gener assembly’ consider ensur region peace, security, develop unleash potenti prevent diplomacy.",1,test
0,"peace, secur develop central asia directli depend settlement situat afghanistan. posit turkmenistan principl remain unchanged. altern negoti process. previou experi shown coerciv approach prospect fail lead agreement reconciliation. countri afghanistan’ neutral immedi neighbor state readi provid necessari polit organiz condit territori establish peac dialogu govern afghanistan parti interest polit settlement situat afghanistan.",1,test
0,"think key condit polit stabilization, social econom recoveri afghanistan, success integr global economi implement larg infrastructur project afghanistan’ involv primarili vital sector energy, transport communications.",1,test
0,"turkmenistan strongli believ futur un continu strengthen build strateg partnership organization, therebi make contribut unlock inexhaust potenti interest global peace, secur progress.",1,test
0,"attack — know — limit unilater coerciv measures. may 3rd, venezuela face attempt maritim incurs group mercenari terrorists, financ govern unit state train colombian territory, total absolut support u.s. colombian governments. group terrorist confront real time civic-militari polic union, perpetr attack, arm incurs venezuela, neutral captured, order judici institut due process.",1,test
0,"necessari countri defend peac activ make govern unit state understand that, midst pandemic, one understand explain upsurg crimin prosecution, blockad nobl countri cuba, nicaragua, venezuela, syria, iran brotherli countri world. reason, must demand cessat unilater coerciv measures, alleg sanctions, allow peopl exercis rights, right develop peace. unit state govern must abandon old practic crimin us subordin order world maintain, it, polici independ sovereignty. unit state — must say — cours history, becom seriou threat peac world.",1,test
0,"venezuela tradit host countri refuge migrants. however, direct consequ crimin unilater coerciv measur econom aggress impos govern unit state people, process migrat citizen taken place, fundament econom reasons.",1,test
0,"said, covid-19 pandem catalys alreadi unsustain live condit thousand migrant so-cal host countries, report worsen abandon lack respons attent author countries. fragil social protect system countri becom evident, sometim present social econom models. wonder again, possible, despit great amount dollar given govern extravag donor recruit confer venezuelan migrants? money? govern steal it? believ must certainli review, institut scientif rigour role unit nation agencies, peopl agencies, play processes, unhcr intern organ migrat  iom .",1,test
0,"venezuela, tell you, necessari guarante hold parliamentari elect invit world join us, wit live democracy, noth nobodi abl take away venezuelan peopl right elect new legisl power, sinc fundament tool collect exist express origin power. one decid us venezuelan  interven intend case — ever — nation, respect thu demand respect.",1,test
0,"first, global region multilater mechan must strengthened. need unit nation truli cohes inclusive, everi member, larg small, rich poor, voic decid matter common concern. un must serv “incubator” multilater cooper initi peace, develop prosperity. reform undertaken transform un stronger effect organ fulfil role harmon interest behavior state face monument chang time.",1,test
0,"second, unit nation charter fundament principl intern law must upheld advanc norm behavior countri contemporari intern relations. must resolut persever advanc cooper friendship counter conflict hostility. must choos dialogu confrontation, peac settlement disput unilater act imposition. spirit, viet nam call remov unilater sanction advers affect countries’ socio-econom develop people’ livelihoods, especi embargo impos upon cuba.",1,test
0,"third, covid-19 pandem serv stern warn us all, requir stronger commit stronger action promot sustainable, inclus human-cent development. 2030 agenda sustain develop continu framework cooper overcom pandem sustain recovery. polici action interest peopl heart, one, country, left behind. develop countri receiv financi assistance, technolog commerci facilit realiz sustain develop goals.",1,test
0,"viet nam pursu foreign polici independence, self-reliance, multilater diversif relations. reliabl partner active, respons member intern community, viet nam attach import work un expand comprehens cooper organization. viet nam work member state make un democratic, transpar effective.",1,test
0,"last 75 years, member state painstakingli built unit nation peace, cooper development. duty-bound strengthen reinvigor world’ largest multilater organization, particularli face immens challeng opportun 21st century.",1,test
0,"outset, let sincer congratul assum presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. excellency, assur vanuatu’ commit support tenure, everi confid presid success guid us collect pursuit futur want, ralli spirit cooper essenti unit nation need.",1,test
0,"deliv nation address via video link may emblemat extraordinari time, it’ also sign resolv adapt make use available. so, even though moment abl travel togeth person, continu find way har collect commit vision end pandem reset planet sustain peac footing.",1,test
0,"mani peopl around world, 2020 year unparallel challenge. covid-19 unleash complex web health, econom social issu sore test government, busi commun systems. pandem expos exist vulner alert us threat new ones. seen exacerb alreadi unaccept high rate global inequ poverti face.",1,test
0,"covid-19 also shone new light exist global challeng conflicts, includ escal threat arm race terror  continu human right abus  climat chang  displac peopl  scourg non-communic disease, disrupt technolog revolut redefin futur work. around world see fallout pandem deepen commun divisions, escal geopolit tensions, chang trade relat threaten peace.",1,test
0,"thankfully, still confirm suspect case covid-19 vanuatu. earli border closur gave us preciou window prepar health responses, also come seriou econom social costs. top that, april, countri hit yet anoth severe, categori five tropic cyclone. sever compound disast alreadi left endur scar families, commun nation. limit resourc strain ongo recoveri effort previou disasters. ever loom threat futur disast extrem weather events, fuell exacerb climat change. even so, experi assur us work together, recover, build back better emerg stronger resilient.",1,test
0,"careful, event year continu fractur multilater may dilut global develop aspirations. triumphantli sign five year ago 2030 agenda 17 sustain develop goals. ever must return collect commit redoubl implement efforts. vanuatu alreadi contextu global goal nation aspirations, articul vanuatu 2030 — people’ plan. year sought ensur nation recoveri strategi respond immedi social, econom environment need associ covd-19 cyclon harold, empow us build back better continu advanc develop aspirations. must keep move forward revert back before. increas frequenc extrem weather event disast mean recoveri becom new normal.",1,test
0,"build back better possibl right architectur place. us small island develop state especially, biggest threat global — notabl climat chang manag oceans. therefor solut must global, mean imper necessari intern architectur place. resourc address complex challeng becom scarcer, vulner countri ldc sid especi face daunt future. put simply, need fulli functional, work unit nations. need un agenc work solid partnership member states, multilater organizations. know problems, need find way fix these, creat even greater problem continu trend undermin multilater intern cooperation.",1,test
0,"first, covid-19 result mount debt countri least afford servic them. essenti multilater financi institut provid debt forgiv relief. accompani tailor concession financ packag grants. measur ensur adequ fiscal space countri weather current crisis, also financ implement sustain develop priorities. acknowledg great work alreadi gone ahead area, however, believ need done.",1,test
0,"finally, imper ensur everi countri get timely, fair equit access covid-19 vaccines, mean work cooper competitively. un must especi ensur vulner countri world get access. medic break pray for, must unit effort mitig drastic impact crisi people.",1,test
0,"theme 75th gener assembl call us, member state unit nations, come togeth frame futur want. vanuatu, extraordinarili difficult year backdrop start next phase nation building, mark independ celebr culmin ldc graduat months. hope share experi contribut global learn navig current crisi work togeth pursuit sustain peac sustain development. emerg grip covid-19, continu align nation global recoveri exist commit reorient growth model one sustain greener nature.",1,test
0,"theme year’ gener debat apt timely. need reaffirm commit multilater face challeng covid 19 pandemic, shape “the futur want, unit nation need”.",1,test
0,live tri unparallel times. never leader requir make hard decis close border provid near absolut guarante peopl arriv covid-19 pandem limit commun transmiss virus. uncertainti face test mettl nation govern like never before. samoa extend sincer condol un famili live lost due pandem pay tribut selfless servic frontlin worker risk live bring covid-19 control.,1,test
0,"samoa remain covid-free, spare seriou life chang impact nation, people, still recov devast decemb 2019 measl outbreak claim 80 young lives. experi test resolv nation, also strengthen uniti resilience. importantly, reaffirm trust invest genuin partnerships.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem time remind yet interconnectedness. world teeter brink uncertainties, need ‘nation unit one’. global solidar unifi respons best armour pandem socio-econom impact peopl facing. acknowledg ongo support un develop partner continu assist effort mitig impact pandemic. hope success develop vaccin equal even distribution. let us spread kind faster virus, hate, fear misinformation.",1,test
0,"pacif sids, futur alreadi uncertain compromis world continu current trajectori emiss caus 3 degre global warming. would pose existenti threat islands. pandem introduc temporari lockdown  sever cyclon continu rampage, coastlin whittl away, sea level rise higher, ocean yield gnaw acidification. border closur observed, climat chang know restrict respect boundaries.",1,test
0,unit nation remain best hope provid polit necessari commit avoid existenti threat mani small state un family.,1,test
0,"un made notabl achiev peac secur agenda, much work still need done. covid-19 contribut increas volatil instabl situations. grow inequality, poverty, arm conflicts, terror insecur still exist. peopl flee home search refug safeti becom new normal. threat use nuclear weapon still present.",1,test
0,"samoa’ long-term vision improv qualiti life mirror un 2030 agenda, critic roadmap uphold three pillar un. achiev sdg take us closer world envisag founder organis 75 year ago, futur want joined.",1,test
0,"socio-econom wellb peopl remain core samoa’ develop initiatives. promotion, respect of, protect fulfil human right fundament freedoms, indispens ensur one left behind. commit human right approach sustain development. continu invest robust system process improv effect inclus implement human right obligations. ensur linkag core sustain develop nation secur priorities.",1,test
0,"concern howev lack progress reform secur council. samoa remain convinc expand secur council mirror present day realiti essenti multilater council’ integr credibility. increas perman non-perman categori part parcel reform package, time move text base negotiations.",1,test
0,"year’ session gener assembl sixth held republ yemen endur difficult harsh circumst result war impos upon peopl houthi coup militia, back iran, region supporter. militia hatch plan follow execut gulf initiative, implement mechanism, coincid success hold comprehens nation dialogu conference, establish road map futur republ yemen, particip entir polit spectrum.",1,test
0,"houthi militia, sent repres ndc, welcom developments. start time prepar coup d’etat country. began mobil forc ensur collaps town citi displac citizen home regions. even invad capital, sana’a, septemb 2014, took state institut hostag undermin elect legitimaci polit climate. suppress freedoms, raid hous blew school place worship. suppress dissent voic harass citizens. militia transform sana’a, citi steep history, civil tradit coexistence, great prison put peopl behind bars.",1,test
0,"unit nation play pivot outstand role overse polit transit process yemen, ongo sinc 2011. accord gulf initi implement mechanism, start transit period. nation govern form presidenti elect took place. nation dialogu confer held particip strata yemeni society. new yemeni constitut draft accord outcom dialogue. suppos subject referendum yemeni peopl adopt allow elect held line new constitution. however, houthi coup d’etat disrupt transit process led war peopl yemen.",1,test
0,"war impos us caus humanitarian catastrophe, destroy societi led wave collect displacement. also caus repression, forc disappear worst case poverti ever seen peopl decades. extend hand peace. done utmost support facilit effort unit nation current special envoy, mr. martin griffiths, well previou envoys, view save countri establish last comprehens peace. goal stop bloodlet yemen yemeni catastroph yemeni peopl accept iranian model territory, regardless circumst challenges.",1,test
0,"let us recal concess made quest peac past five years. commit month ago — alongsid brother coalit support yemeni legitimacy, led kingdom saudi arabia — establish unilater ceasefir support effort mr. martin griffith last comprehens ceasefir would allow polit process resumed. however, effort regrett fail obstinaci houthi terrorist militia sponsor iranian regime. even wors militia took opportun mobil attack governor cities, caus massacr among civilian sever region citi yemen.",1,test
0,"see today ruthless escal militias, particularli governor ma’rib, al-jawf al-bayda, houthi militia engag indiscrimin militari campaign sever months. attack residenti area ballist missiles, concern whatsoev civilian live million displac peopl fled region militia’ control. terrorist militia repeatedli target civilian civilian infrastructur kingdom saudi arabia. clearli demonstr true intent view peace.",1,test
0,call intern commun support govern effort address econom challeng polici plan strengthen nation currenc view ensur household stability. intern commun allow houthi manipul humanitarian aid blackmail govern loot fund earmark payment salaries. continu undermin unit nation effort regard.,1,test
0,call intern commun make seriou urgent commit end immin catastroph surround fso safer oil tanker. houthi militia refus grant unit nation access oil tanker repair maintenance.,1,test
0,"unlimit support brother kingdom saudi arabia, made much progress implement riyadh agreement, aim establish stabil enabl us address regrett event took place provision capital, aden, august 2019. done utmost facilit implement agreement believ must pool effort ensur reconstruct development, auspic state. reiter trust brother kingdom saudi arabia continu implement agreement.",1,test
0,"african continent, respons coronaviru swift effective. continent strategi fight pandem driven region econom communities. african union establish covid-19 respons fund launch ground-break african medic suppli platform ensur countri access necessari equip supplies.",1,test
0,"nonetheless, pandem inevit set back development aspirations. resourc redirect fight pandem set back effort provid housing, health care, water sanit educ people.",1,test
0,ensur countri left behind reiter posit african union econom sanction zimbabw sudan lift allow govern respond adequ pandemic. also call suspens interest payment africa’ extern public debt.,1,test
0,year 2020 rememb massiv groundswel push back frontier racism umbrella #blacklivesmatt movement.,1,test
0,"cooper un secur council au peac secur council contribut improv peac secur darfur region sudan, south sudan, somalia, mali central african republic.",1,test
0,use tenur promot intern peac secur advoc peac settlement disput inclus dialogue.,1,test
0,reform inclus secur council abl collect resolv world’ protract conflicts.,1,test
0,"must advanc principl green circular economies, sake environment sustain opportun job creation econom growth.",1,test
0,"south africa reaffirm commit ideal spirit un charter, spare effort bring just, peac equit world.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem decim economi exacerb poverty, also shown us interconnect interdepend world is, must work togeth respond effect challeng confront us today.",1,test
0,"prior onset covid-19, young peopl alreadi three time like unemploy compar adult counterparts. pandem push global economi deeper crisis, young gener risk disproportion bear brunt mass unemploy under-protection.",1,test
0,"regard, wish share zambian govern launch multi sector youth empower programm support young entrepreneurs. multi-sector approach help ensur programm activ empow creat employ opportun youth mainstream across sectors.",1,test
0,"mark 75th anniversari this, great institution, cannot conclud that, unit nations’ import continu relev mankind beyond question. context need revit fulfil ideal established.",1,test
0,year celebr diamond jubile unit nation organization. gratifi continu make qualit differ live mani peopl throughout world. jubil sadli mar covid 19 pandem brought fore import uniti effect multilater cooper build futur want.,1,test
0,"zimbabw new path. like nation region, face humanitarian challeng case worsen illeg sanctions, neg impact climat change, compound outbreak covid-19 pandemic.",1,test
0,optimist implement second phase eas busi reform help improv world bank rankings.,1,test
0,"let assur zimbabw continu implement measur battl covid-19 pandemic. institut phase lockdowns, follow world health organ guidelines, govern also provid zwl$18 billion  approxim us$720 million  econom stimulu package.",1,test
0,"celebr 25th anniversari 4th world confer women 1 st octob year, gratifi highlight zimbabw taken major step implement beij declaration. includ adopt gender respons constitution, establish zimbabw gender commission, enact sever piec legisl outlaw practic infring right women girl forc child marriag discrimin women inherit matters. govern also set women’ bank facilit access financ women-own busi projects.",1,test
0,"let conclud reaffirm zimbabwe’ commit work better world. better way achiev peac andstabl world mutual respect, genuin multilater buttress much need reform respect intern law. recommit ideal pave way world yearn for.",1,test
1,"full realization of responsibility, Russia suggests convening G5 summit. would aim to reaffirm the core behavior of practitioners ’issues, to elaborate on how to deal with today’s burn issues. encourage partner support initiative. the summit - person - is expected to be held soon the epidemiological situation will make it possible.",1,test
2,"global family, come together, engage in multiple effects, tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, which means that universal challenging poverty, hunger, disease, natural disasters, climate change, terrorism, human rights abuses, cybersecurity, transnational organic crime.",1,test
0,"Tajikistan 93 percent of the territory covers mountains, bears equal losses of hundr million dollars annual result water-rel disasters.",1,test
1,"Thankfully, there is still a confirmed case of suspected Covid-19 in Vanuatu. Early border closures gave us a precise window to prepare for health responses, with serious economic and social costs. On top of that, April, the country hit yet another severe, category five tropical cyclone. Break the compound disaster, already left endur scar families, communion nation. Limit the pressure on resources disasters before the recovery effort. Ever Loom Threats Future Disaster Extreme weather events, fuels and climate change. Nevertheless, experience assures us to work together, to recover, to emerge better and to be stronger resilient.",1,test
2,"There are also Lebanese people who are experiencing a humanitarian catastrophe in the explosive port city of Beirut, resulting in the decision of Hezbollah, a terrorist organization affiliated with Iran, to process Lebanese fork weapons. Lebanese-led Disability Institute. Order the last nation of Lebanon to achieve super security, stability, prosperity, the terrorist organ must be disarmed.",1,test
2,"pandem also overrides serious ethical, technological and humanitarian issues. Example: Advanced Digit Technolog quickly helps reorganize education, business services, well-adjusted distance learning online, people of different ages. artifici intelligently assist the doctor, make precise diagnoses and find the best treatment.",1,test
1,"Take into account internal law, diplomatic dialogue in favor of resolving Iran's nuclear program.",1,test
2,"behind Turkey's success, the lie effect, the governance mechanism, the establishment of a president's government system, high capacity, infrastructure development, investment in health, quality human resources .",1,test
0,"Afghanistan, Experian Digital Revaluation Increases economic access to young people, as well as strengthens system governance. Look at the 19th and 20th century models too early now, make them unstable.",1,test
2,"mani peopl around the world, incomparable challenge of the year 2020. covid-19 unleashes complex web health systems, social economy, painful test, government and business systems. There are pandemic exposures that alert us to new threats. seen to exacerbate and no longer accept the global inequality of high poverty rate they face.",1,test
1,"On the occasion, the writer company Qatar Wayend, Syria, Crisipolit Salt Base Geneva Communiqué 1, Security Council Resolution 22542015 will be implemented. Qatar in the state also confirms continuation, intern communities, realization of support efforts, atrocities of perpetrators of justice-holding accounts, war crime crimes, and human commit Syria.",1,test
2,"terrorist extremist body find fertile ground sprout scattered sectarian divisions weak collapse state institutions. intention to win the fight against terrorism, must renounce the face of the country sponsor terror sectarianism, must be steadfast.",1,test
1,"romania pays particular attention to young people, especially relevant training occupations. Such a double scholarship is offered to foreign citizens 2020-2021 academic year, especially africa. believe that the continuation of youth education is guaranteed, materi participate “build better” principle.",1,test
0,"Consider health care, open Dedic Center manage the economy regions of Lom County, train staff supplement critical laboratory, medical safety equipment. Scientific committee develops treatment plan. Diversified social criteria benefit the population, especially the Wulner sectors, order meet effect pandem - reduce cost water electricity, tax basic needs, provid food distribution subsidized detag citizen novice cash transfer program, and finally, support business. So thank you so much for expressing your distress",1,test
1,"region histori tragic dictatorships, oppress military conflicts. Despite the difficulties that still persist in the region, significant progress has been made in the last two decades, thanks to the cyclical reform, the processes of enlargement of the european union of nato have begun.",1,test
0,"Protecting the Seychelles Near the third protection of the eez Ocean, climate protection shows that countries' response to climate health requires an increase in natural climate.",1,test
2,"currently an active laboratory confirms the case of covid-19 infection, despite the reopening of the border on june 1, commercial flight daili america north europe, tries to earn income in the tourism sector vital to protect the means of subsistence.",1,test
2,"Determine, shape, achieve, manage goals, and develop global challenges for a rapid world recovery.",1,test
2,"chosen theme 75th session makes us the opportune time again, turn our eyes to the multilater force address multipl complex global challenge facing today.",1,test
2,Thank you. On-the-spot opportunities need the support of an intern coordinator in the promotion system.,1,test
2,"To help everyone compete with 100 percent marks, Advantag Technology will also enable Corner World.",1,test
1,continue to look for new multilateral approaches to debt restructuring that will increase access to public policy.,1,test
2,"Socio-economic people with social luxuries remain the core of Samoa's development initiatives. Promote, respect, protect the realization of fundamental human rights freedoms, indispensable to ensuring that one is left behind. Commitment to a human rights approach to sustainable development. Continue to invest Robust system operation Improving impact including implementation of human rights obligations. Ensure that the core of connectivity maintains the development of the state's security priorities.",1,test
2,"therefore, in order to ensure the proper recovery of the economy, to ensure the global stability of social policies, focused internship solidarity cooperation is needed.",1,test
2,"The economy is weakening, inadequate response domestic communist debt replenishment privilege financing, unemployment debt is rising.",1,test
2,"Part of Solomon Island continues to meet its commitment to reduce carbon emissions. The 15-megawatt hydropower project will reduce dependence on fossil fuels by 70%. despit challenge led covid-19, a force project commiss 2024 continuous call development partner remains a constant trajectory for us.",1,test
1,"Loss of sight Facts Stimulus package target rescue economy The coronavirus crisis shapes the global economy - financially stable, social inclusion low-carbon economy - come the year.",1,test
2,"Attention, strong support Vision ambiti Reform Agenda UN Secretary General. convince albania reform unit nation deliv integr cross-system approach achieve the 2030 Agenda ensure that one falls short.",1,test
2,the message serv power antidote rise intolerant violent extrem undermine peace security.,1,test
2,"affect climate change, including increasingly frequent severe weather phenomena, droughts caused by flooding, depletion of freshwater resources, desertification, land degradation, sea level rise, threaten entire populations, deprive of livelihoods.",1,test
1,"econom commiss latin america caribbean eclac forecasts gross domestic product gdp caribbean treaty 6.9 percent 2020, effect of covid-19 economies.",1,test
0,5. Delivery understands financial technical assistance develop internship bodies to develop the least developed counter monitor preserves glacier water source.,1,test
2,"natur relat africa country colonized past redefine order transform pain histori colon opportune cooperation mutually beneficial, cannot lose sight of conquest enslav strong africa resist peopl africa defend invas free coloni yoke claim millions live africa left deep wound remains unhealed.",1,test
1,"Access to the Botswana accelerator, including eligible training through, among interventions, the implementation of the training program strategy program. etssp is common, the goal is to transform learning, access, retain, improve lifelong learning skills.",1,test
0,"Botswana is also developing due to the special position of the countries that at least develop the land blockade in the country, the small island of the country is developing, the member states of the violent class group of the government are developing. The landlocked country of Botswana has challenged the pandemic and offers good border services due to closed borders.",1,test
2,"Context, follow-up vaccine multi-later critics ensur University will equip access covid-19 vaccine, Maximis Global Health Impact eventu vaccine. singapor switzerland works at the covid 19vaccin Global Access facility, a friend of 13 aspiring partners. covax, short. The covax facility reduces risk and facilitates access to vaccinated countries.",1,test
2,"context, congratulations to aptli theme chosen 75th session welcome timely address assembly share perspective ""the future wants, unity nation needs: reaffirm collect commitment multilateralism-confront effect covid-19 multiple action"". Small nation as well as large nation anticipated it is even up to us to share in the care of others.",1,test
1,have to support a member state abl reviv strengthen the global water agenda in recent decades.,1,test
1,"The immediate crisis of the Coyote-19, remains the biggest threat to the lives of the climate changers, save the people for a long time for better peace. The head of the Pacific Island Forum reaffirmed last year that Kainaki II would declare an emergency climate change action. Secure Secure Blue Pacific Safe Presence Internet Commune Tracking Efforts Limited Global Temperature 1.5 ° c.",1,test
1,Pandem taught us an instant lesson: Ignore drivers.,1,test
2,"also respons intern commun stop yemen bloodsh, continued five years, stop humanitarian crisis.",1,test
1,"look ahead see iran respect principle good neighbors abid safe council resolutely stop developing ballistic missile program ceas armed terrorist groups. Context, countries particular concern restriction imposing iran nuclear deal soon to expire. since nuclear agreement achieve desired result, hope experi use achieve understand agreement address concerns state region key partners make draft contract.",1,test
0,"In this regard, I strongly support the vision of the reform program of the ambitious UN Secretary General. albania convinces reform unit nation deliv integr system-wid approach achieving the 2030 agenda ensuring that we are left behind.",1,test
0,"Pandemic, in fact, is calling us to ""choose time trial, choose time, choose time, things go by, time is not necessary"". represp concrete opportune conversion, transformation, rethink how life economics of social systems, widen the gap rich poor base unjustly distribute resources. Hand, pandem occas ""defends the withdrawal"" greater individual elitism.",1,test
2,"Geopolitical tension, concrete method of conflict looming, different corner of the globe. The health crisis is exacerbating tensions.",1,test
1,"argentina handles the seal of the major deal almost privately the external creditors, becoming the first country to meet the challenge of debt restructuring pandemic.",1,test
1,said Coved-19 would hurt Botswana's economy. trainees go on a world tour. Repetition of the covid-19 protocol significantly reduces economic activity.,1,test
1,The power of imbal causes the world to lose its balance.,1,test
2,"In order to globalize Covid-19, the family of a member of the family lost love mourning the loss of more than one hundred thousand people around the world Affects.",1,test
1,Kalam Weedley demonstrates the vulnerability of humanity.,1,test
1,"origin ""culture of expulsion"" gross lack of respect for human dignity, encouraging ideologues reducing the understanding of the human person, denying the universal basis of human rights, craving for absolute control over power, widespread in today's society. let's call it: an attack on man himself.",1,test
2,"Despite obvious evidence, joint efforts, collaboration between nations, exchanges between special scientific institutes manage face problem previous completely unknown, pledge us to seek immediate answers to alleviate the effects of diseases.",1,test
0,"venezuela knows that, for 75 years, part of a nation has made a great human contribution. anyway, ask for efforts to save accomplishments, promote new objectives. insists that it will strengthen the south-facing cooper to create another technical support platform for back-up to decide what one will do to promote the objective. everi day fast work is important. ""The south preserves, the south is important, the south is also"", the poet benedetti said, the presence of a century.",1,test
2,Success in the fight against terrorism and achieving extremism must intensify joint efforts and face the challenges comprehensively. including the fight against financial terrorism. Kingdom support mani intern entiti contribute amplify joint effort combat challenge. Kingdom supports UN counterterrorism center contribution $ 110 million Establish a global center fighting extremist ideologues etid Riyadh. Kingdom also hosts an internal target center for terrorist funding.,1,test
0,"polit militari conflict persists central african republic, eastern province democratic congo republic, south sudan, libya, sahel, emerg terrorist groups, action terrorist group the chebab east of africa boko haram west central africa.",1,test
1,call internal commun support governance effort address econom challenge policy plan strengthen nation current view ensure household stability. intern commun sta houthi manipul humanitarian aid blackmail board loot fund earmark payment salaries. continue to undermine unity nation effort esteem.,1,test
0,It also uses the Convert Power Digit Preparation Economy Prescription Survival Crisis.,1,test
2,"cooper un secur Council au peac secur Council for participation in improv peac secur Darfur Region Sudan, South Sudan, Somalia, Mali Central African Republic.",1,test
0,"Also discussed are corporations to turn 70,000 megawatts of wind, 220,000 megawatts of solar energy to renew energy, which will become a renewable center in the green industry region.",1,test
1,"tonga continuous recognition import ocean-clim link, continuous note serious concern detrimental impact climate chang marine environment.",1,test
0,"Even as the pandemic shook the world's strongest economies, says Serbia, it maintains a stable budget, helps fully prepare the fiscal monetary system, helps open up the measurement economy, Opens capacity investment plans.",1,test
2,"COVID-19 exposed weak food security systems. Atoll nations such as Tuvalu, agriculture barely raise sea levels. Over the years, partners have invested in new agricultural food product systems, helping to develop climate change resilient sea level rise. Acknowledging recent work, the Peacebuilding Fund sector will encourage aid scale in developing food safe atoll nations.",1,test
2,"Coronaviru pandemic affect the world countri obsession rate. however, serious risk disadvantages the region ecological prospects. unfortunately, the numerous imposs territory map mentions a speech. therefore, would like to touch on the issue, important Central Asian nations. the aral sea disaster.",1,test
2,"launch of an efficient measure tackle the problem of freshwater shortages due to climate change. azerbaijan ratifi par agreement, voluntari mandatory achieve 35 percent reduction of greenhouse gases go emissions 2030 compare base year 1990. azerbaijan, use environmentally friendly natur ga hydroelectric power plant power plant generation.",1,test
0,"alarm eskal situat countri urg intern The community is taking additional action to coordinate measures to combat terrorism, to combat drug trafficking, and during the time it will assist the governance of the Afghan people.",1,test
1,"Worldwide, the economy size saver effect affects the Covid-19 Wolner the most. Somalia, like every other world, challenges the pain contract economy, requiring constant investment to lose a job Basic public service protects the citizen deadly virus. Appreciate, regain the huge post-conflict re-ov like the Somali governor.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandemic come prove action coordination, response share efficient way thus achieved satisfactory result.",1,test
1,Painful lesson learn sincere pandem outbreak emphasize urgent urgent need to gather approaches.,1,test
1,"planet deep emergency covid-19 open cause novel coronavirus, unpredictable consequences health social economy terms.",1,test
1,"The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the brother of unlimited support, has made great strides in implementing the Riyadh Accords, aiming to create stability. The event of remorse took place in Aden, August 2019. The Ritter Trust's brother kingdom, Saudi Arabia, continues to implement the agreement.",1,test
0,"nations, members of assets, have contributed to strengthening development goals. the test point needs the state, a strong institution capable of tackling the challenge that threatens modernity. a convinced internship conflict must resolve the dialogue for negotiations. tool allows the promotion of basic necessity humanity. concern recent rising tensions maritime dispute south china. Proud say that the first cities used a mandatory mechanism of councils, a legal unit nation monastic law sea. calling for participation, inclusion, resolution, different dialogue, negotiation, reaching a decision.",1,test
1,The Covid-19 epidemic brought the real face nations.,1,test
1,"The recovery of a sector of financial products of unique resources was diverted, given the current context, services need biosecurity urgently need natural epidemiology caused by the pandemic.",1,test
0,"Celebrity 25th Anniversary Fourth World bestows women the first octave year, free highlights Zimbabwe has taken a big step forward and implemented the beij declaration. It includes adopting a gender-responsibility constitution, establishing a gender committee in Zimbabwe, and enacting outlaws with strict laws that infringe on rights. Governance has also set up women's banks to have access to women's own business projects.",1,test
0,"Given the magnetic effect of covid-19, target disease burdens, target investment in health service delivery systems, and sustain a robust post-COVID-19 recovery process. In order to receive additional grants, access to fintech assists in partner development, budget support, and much-needed financial space.",1,test
1,"Finally, allow the commit revit to be confirmed after the Covid-19 multilater support topic session. Multilater encompasses global solidarity collaboration, empathy including resilience, importing notes, protecting those at risk, addressing inequality to ensure access to the universe, affording a vaccine against Covid-19, building better, leaving one behind.mr. President,",1,test
2,"Finally, reaffirm the opportunity to promote Thailand's Support Agenda Unit Countries, Peak Security, Development, Climate Chang Management, Human Rights, and Partnership Diversity. The Multilator guides us crusher together, completed over 75 years, Future Peak has better global future generations.",1,test
1,"since joining un in 1955 austria proudly honor contributing areas. whether 60 years of peacekeeping, member - current President - Human Rights Council. Austria is still partly ready to take on responsibility. especially for the sincere reason un-secure council 2027-2028 hope for support.",1,test
0,"Violenc warfar also evolved, evolve afghan wit will suffer in real time. Living, dying, insid 5th wave of global terrorism, global terrorist network close link global criminal networks, make warfar total inconventionality build peace even challenge.",1,test
0,"Fortunately, we still confirm the suspicious case of Covid-19 Vanuatu. The closure of the primary boundaries gave us sanitary answers to window preparation, as well as serious social costs. On top of that, April, the country still experienced a severe, fifth-degree tropical storm. Stop disaster leaving alreadi left endur Oscar family, commune country. Limit resource pressure on previous disaster prevention efforts. The ever-threatening catastrophe of a severe weather event intensifies the intensification of climate change. Even so, experience ensures that we work together, improve, create better and more resilient.",1,test
0,"recall the seventy-fifth anniversary unit nation year, in long note institute has made great progress in the field of peacebuilding, respects the human right promot truli supports development, regrets the overcome prejudice. One major achievement area organization promotes peace security, peacekeeping operation help save mani live restor stable secur world plague conflict emergency violent violent extremism. peacekeeping operations, one major contribution of actively participating troops, improve improvisation time. right occasion welcomes a fact resolutely move towards the prevention of a multidimension approach.",1,test
1,disarmament of vital imports provides global security.,1,test
1,"the region suffers from a decade-long attempt to mani force extreme chaos to seek impositions malicious view police order hijack the present future of countries, pay attention to the region's development aspired, prosperity, peace. kingdom, choose the path future vision 2030 aspire to create robust common economy interact surrounding contribute activ progress humanity civil.",1,test
2,Faith Human Unified Justice Drives Senegal Role Chair Committee Exercise Foreign Right Palestinian People.,1,test
0,"Myriad significant internal efforts response crisis launches make great promises – think two global compact asylum migrates – yet the gem's lack of the necessary political support proves successful. Responds to other failed individual state shirk commitments. The same, present crisis resolution opportunity unit nation aid fraternity helps to build compassion society.",1,test
2,"however, econom financi indic country sever neg consequ covid-19 call question time to implement sustainable development goals, especially developing countries.",1,test
2,"Covid-19 pandemic leaves devastating socioeconomic consequences. Life depends on time information. Full exercise of freedom of expression, access to public information protects the key good community of journalists.",1,test
0,Year Celebrity Diamond Jubilee Unit National Organization. gratifi continu transforms the quality of live mani people around the world. Jubilee Sadrimer Covid 19 Pandem has brought the desire of the future to the Import Unity Effect Multi-Rator Cooper Build.,1,test
0,"Reiter Imports Facing Covid-19 Impact Multilateral Action, Want to Recognize Provide Efficient Financial Support Somali Feder Government Mitig Worst Covid-19 Economic Pressure Intern Financier Institute Money Multilator Institute Somalia Success Reach Decis Point Debt Relief Mani Key Intern Get creditors. Progress towards obtaining credit, cancel economic reforms, Somalia's economy remains 'prosperous people in the future, intertwined'. Relationships, the future Somalians want more and more partnerships to foster intern trade, increase foreign direct investment, key products, sector potential, feed the world, develop human capit Create Opportunity for all of us. Unit Nation Need Inclusive Global Multiletter Platform Propel Idea Aspire Chang Realize Also. The COVID-19 economy challenges us to uphold the developed goal, the world must improve, for the better, all together.",1,test
2,"A safe council reform of the transformation process aspect can be completed without fundamental reform. end, Kingdom eswatini wish reiter africa ’call perman partnership secur Council agreement ezulwini consensus.",1,test
2,"Close professionally coordinated joint efforts of scientist, physician, community around the world are essential, always an epidemic of victory.",1,test
2,"Armenia county opposing startup has a special meeting of social activists, covid-19, where Armenia is in high demand. Armenia was originally developed by Azerbaijan. what products product irrat idea. Anoth demonstr police “azerbaijanophobia” in support of Armenian government. hatr Azerbaijani people teach young generation.",1,test
2,"Given the magnetic effect of covid-19, target disease burdens, target investment in health service delivery systems, and sustain a robust post-COVID-19 recovery process. In order to receive additional grants, access to fintech assists in partner development, budget support, and much-needed financial space.",1,test
1,"country, tourism-dependent tourism, border closure, cessat cruis tourism restricts aviation, affects overnight ruined economy, results in revenue from serious losses, also unexpected jobs of significant loss.",1,test
2,v construire resili future crise,1,test
0,"The Covid-19 pandemic pair means energy rate acceleration accelerator efforts aimed at diversified economies. Respectfully, increasing resource allocation investment recognizes the agro-tourism sector requires residential sector incentives, policies, programs to build public-private partnerships. In addition, engine investment calls for a leading decline in agriculture to demand some imported food, maintaining financial constraints to achieve a food-safe country. As well as encouraging women’s agribusinesses, agri-tourism is a fact of life that women play a role in ensuring that family achievement requires nutritional health.",1,test
1,The Sake environment will sustain the growth of the opportunity-creating economy as the Principal Green Circular Economy needs to move forward.,1,test
0,Kosovo has a strong legal framework for the protection of small cultural heritage. The fulli line often corresponds to the European term for the protection of human rights.,1,test
2,would also like to call internally communicate current pandem result fail full honor commit made multilater level. must be avoided falling victim to national protectionism would harm the way internal supply internal trade interrupt the supply chain distribute medical care distribute necessary health crises.,1,test
0,"The region suffers Mani Dasha try forc extrem chao impos malign view polici order hijack The current future of the countries, be aware Aspir people Region development, prosperity, peace. Empire, Path Future Vision 2030 Aspire Create Strong Economy Com Interact Surround Contribution Active Progress Civil Mankind.",1,test
1,"become a multilater topic debate multilater Recognis crucial globally-coordinate respons covid-19 us pandem emerging resilient, hopefully compassionate.",1,test
0,"Five years ago, the development goal was adopted, which defines the integrated ambitions of global development. There are ten years left until 2030, and it will be difficult to reach the target time. countries, especially Africa, off - road 2020.",1,test
1,"Tunisia welcomes the termination of the agreement sisters Libya emphasizes the company is committed to the maximum with the help of the Libyan brother to achieve a political settlement, including the Libyan dialogue, the auspices of the nation. also call the trainee communication maintenance response security establishment find maintenance course solutions to various options dispute crisis region world.",1,test
1,The Kovid-19 Pandem Strongly Roll Unit ensures that countries need to be strengthened. The Relief Forum should never be questioned.,1,test
0,"Constant pursuit in an individual way resolved, the result of the dead end. It is more essential than ever to foster gentle teamwork for today's global challenges.",1,test
2,"The World Health Organization has consistently supported the development of a vaccine based on the covid-19 reaction formula. postandemic, if necessary, the process of revision can be improved, and now the pandemic can be overcome immediately.",1,test
1,"central technological figures almost everi aspect response pandemic prerequisite achievement sdgs. developing the use of digital technologies, including artificial intelligence, basic human-centered ethical principles. promoting the protection of human rights, democracy, good governance, account regulation the law should provide offline online. the need for the political universe to perform digital security. un galvan digit cooper global level contribute mobile actor ensure openness, provide access to digital infrastructure access all.",1,test
2,"The Opera welcome, led by the Brazilian Ministry of Defense, has deepened the political and economic crisis in Venezuela as a result of the nearly 400,000 Venezuelan displacement.",1,test
0,"countries also call for peace. In context, the media firm affirms the legal rights of the three islands: the Great Tunb, the Lesser Tunb, Abu Musa, the Iranian violator of Iranian law, the violation of the charter, and the complete disregard for the historical record. therefore, demand from the owners of the right to return the UAA to Iran. The countries call for peaceful solutions to Iran, direct negotiations, justice. however, it responds to Iranian calls.",1,test
2,"A new kind of industrial revolution, a combination of pandemics, an execution rally of the current challenge plan, and yet Unga's leadership management will experience an efficient and effective meeting with much less risk. Congratulations Volcan Boskill Asam Presid 75 Session Unga, also a successful overcom specific challenge host collects a pandemic of large global leaders.",1,test
1,"firm foundation belief resolv dispute peac means, grace god thank you, qatar state mediat effort culminated signing peac agreement unity state taliban movement, doha, february 29, 2020, abl make exchang prison rule afghanistan success of taliban movement discuss held in doha last month.",1,test
2,"However, the success of Somalia's common effort means unscathed. Accord offici statistics, 3,000 Somalis infect viru around 100 tragic lost live results. mani diagnosis live pain suffer from covid-19 others remain vulnerable due to the weak infrastructure of the Somalia health system.",1,test
2,"Celeb 25th Anniversary Celebrates 4th World Women October 1st Year Graffi Highlights Zimbabwe Takes Big Step to Implement Beige Declaration. Gender feedback includes adopting the constitution, setting up the Zimbabwe Gender Commission, enforcing different legal legislation, violating the right female girl child force, child marriage discrimination women inherit. The government has also earmarked access to women's own projects to facilitate women's banks.",1,test
1,"In a similar context, the country has expressed deep concern over Turkey's military intervention, alarming part region interference Arab affair, exacerbating humanitarian crisis, undermining efforts to reach peak solutions, affecting the entire region. has been destabilized. Therefore, Country Support Repeat Call Urgent Ceasefire Libya Call On Party Commit Polite Process Ospic Unit Nation Build Outcome Berlin Conference. Sinc Outbreak Conflict Libya, Country Calls Peak Political Solution Crisis Order Get Ultimate Safe Stability.",1,test
0,"‘One Nation’, must eradicate the plague of creating a suffering nation. Avery Public Private Institute should promote internal cooperation, get better preparedness deal the future global threat committed multilateralism. The general strong worldview of the Cowboys-19 makes people fear, think backwards, think internally, think forward, hopefully the Creator wants the world. Achieving the multilayer effect of all benefits guarantees the return of the choice to be combined with each other. There are new partnerships, coordinating responses, avoiding protectionist measures, strengthening inclusion, technological investment, economic and social sector investments, among others.",1,test
2,"""That's why we call the intern community greater sustain support. The Martin Joint Task Force Lake Chad Basin g-5 Sahel Joint Force establishes the combat Boko Haram jihadist group Sahel in the country's territories.",1,test
1,"Again, successful liability effect is possible without partnership government, citizen intern partners. Special Tribute Kaurag Duty Health Staff Risk Live wants to protect others. Also recognize the patient cooperative Somali private sector, work government economy continues to function, important service Somali People Critic Hour Required.",1,test
2,"Watch the ruthless Escal militias, especially Governor Malibu, Al Joff al Abraq, and the Houthi militia, conducting indiscriminate militia campaigns for several months today. We are concerned that millions of refugees, home to millions of civilians, have fled the control of local militias by attacking barista missiles in their areas. Terrorist militias repeatedly target Saudi Arabia, the private sector infrastructure kingdom. clearlidemonstr True intention view peace.",1,test
1,"In this regard, if there is an opportunity, you must have a promotional system for internal coordination support.",1,test
2,The current crisis tends to discriminate in the face of gender-based violence. Inadequacies affect the performance of women with medical needs. hard money for healthy childbirth will come first.,1,test
1,"However, the major security challenges of the Middle East are hurting the stability of the security people.",1,test
1,"reason, during the travel unit nation always advocates for the repeated solution of the internal problem of humanity.",1,test
1,"the figure was seen to take a large number of weeks, and the telephone service was also taught to non-workers, millions of employees would be technically savvy. also see a pump showing meditation process for the elderly care system, the main viru will remind television bring better service-lifc balanc at home a convenient opportunity saw distanc learn to show the inequality between families can not access work, suffering so much of creat manipul around insecurity.",1,test
1,75th anniversary unity nation autumn moment unusual danger people planet. covid pandemic claim nearly a million live push one hundred million unexpected hardships. time doubt hesitation. tool meets the test prevail. mark import anniversary year.,1,test
0,"The first driver to come back کو the Quad-19 Pandem-the effect of the scape scale sees four drivers for us, worsening cholera.",1,test
1,"Human rights, the internship agreement, the main task of protecting human rights, the rule of law, good governance, the emphasis on vulnerable children, the elderly, people with disabilities, low-income people, good migrant workers. Therefore, the response remains committed and guarantees implementation. Thailand, Implementation of the Fourth Nation Program Fourth Human Rights Program-Mindset. Thailand also proudly approved the first Asian country to implement the Nation Action Plan for Human Rights from 2019.",1,test
2,"botswana accelerate inclusive, equitable and quality access through, among interventions, the implementation of an education sector strategic plan. etssp, it is well known, aims to transform learning, ensure access, retention, promote the development of lifelong learning skills.",1,test
0,"context, 75th session, turkmenistan intends to intensify the work of developing an internal legal instrument a stable field of reliable energy transit.",1,test
1,"Solomon Islands introduces voluntary nation review report for the first time implements Agenda 2030 July year. Despite the technical challenges, the ABL highlights the date achieved. See the Solomon Islands Continued Increase in the number of children enrolling the formal education system. Second, develop a proudly established nation's financial infrastructure, implement finance, and implement the Sustainable Development Goals.",1,test
0,"In fact, Africans face political security challenges that hinder the development of their efforts.",1,test
0,"Regarding, I wish the Zambian government share the launch of a multi-sectoral youth empowerment program to support young entrepreneurs. A multisectoral approach helps ensure that youth-friendly programs are employed across sectors.",1,test
0,"think of the alarm situat the indigenous peoples of the Amazon. see environmental crisis insepar link social crisis, care around call integr approach poverty reduction exclusion.",1,test
2,"theme 75th generic meeting call us, member state unity nations, come together frame future want. vanuatu, extraordinarily difficult year background start next phase nation building, mark independ celebr culmin ldc graduation months. share hope share experience contribute globally learn navigate current crisis work together pursue peace support support development. emerging grip covid-19, continuous tuning nation global recovery existence committed reorient growth model one more sustainable nature.",1,test
0,"whereas experi countri winning the fight against terrorism, extremely illicit drug trafficking introduction of Tajik peac experi determin nomin for the first time Tajikistan's candidates for non-staff members un secur Council 2028-2029.",1,test
0,"context aspiration preparation apripri apridi condit reach peac answers economy humanitarian difficulties face brother palestine, we, coordinate trainee partners, continuously provide humanitarian development assistance to take care of urgent long-term need besieg gaza strip, addit increas contribute unrwa.",1,test
0,"Strict action also requires a climate crisis. With catastrophic weather events rising above sea level, the risk of prolonged neglect can afford climate change. Duty Future General Turn Glasgow Cop 26 Success Goal Pass Agreement.",1,test
2,"A multilateral system advances the interest of small states. the great nation also benefits from the multilateral act gaining political legitimacy. benefit from a peaceful, stable global environment. multilateral institute provides avenue countri pool idea work together deal deal common face face humanity, including covid-19 now, also essential us advanc share interests.",1,test
2,"That, the Pristina Institute for Integrated Action declared the independence of the Kosovo region, Resolution 1244 1999, a violation of the stability of the Republic of Serbia again, as well as the Antir region, in serious danger. Let republ serbia fulli commit find compromise solut issu kosovo metohija. The political response of any interested person also protects the stability of peace in the region.",1,test
1,"consider libyan problem, riders welcome peace agreement active political process agreement shirat agreement achieve results, achieve political settlement, maintain libyan sovereignty, integrate territorial independence, contain bloody people, preserve wealth. benefici understand imposs impos militari regim forc libya.",1,test
0,"The report also highlights the challenges facing the health sector, especially cases of noncommunicable diseases. seven ten deaths on Solomon Island cause noncommunicable diseases. remain the largest single-cause death country.",1,test
0,"Global cooperation partnership, regional national level, critical building flexible, sustainable including the world.",1,test
0,"Attack - Learn - Limit Unilator Course Activities. May 3, Venezuela face-to-face attempt by Mortenary Group Mercenary Terrorists, Finance Government Unit State Rail Colombian Territory, fully supported by the US. Colombian governments. Group Terrorist confronts real-time civil-military police union, criminals attack, lays hands on Venezuela, neutralizes, orders judicial process.",1,test
2,"Context, I wish to note the revolution, government accelerating the removal of obstacle constraints governing the delivery of humanitarian aid need to areas of conflict. Within the framework of the work, a partial national plan that improves humanitarian work, ensures that the needs of the population are met, that the state adopts the project, finds a sustainable solution to the problem, improves the living conditions of displaced people, and gives the condition of the trainee, the law governing humanitarian work",1,test
1,"no, enough. a plan must abandon everything. annex will weaken viable the last solute to close future door negotiations.",1,test
0,"currently, an active laboratory confirms the case of covid-19 infection, despit border reopening on june 1, daili commerci flight north north america, attempt to earn revenue from vital tourism sector to protect livelihood.",1,test
1,"The Assembly knows that water will go through a period of transit, the famous injustice, the decline of the socio-economic tyranny. The transit management addresses a wide range of aspirants pei trl totmutle tackl new difficulty imports peaceful economic reform.",1,test
1,"The Albanian factor's constant support for the Wellcome fact strengthens the European Euro Atlant course across the region, the time zone Cooper-owned MBT projects.",1,test
1,"The Covid-19 epidemic showed, moreover, the global challenge requires common action, unity cooperation. Referring to the Secretary-General, ""Quantum Leap Collect Engagement"" must be shown. Multilators also create better greenery, towards an inclusive economy, society - no one lags behind. ""To achieve that, reform must continue, effective, effective purpose must be created. The unit nation needs!",1,test
2,"Must lose reality stimulu packag The goal of saving the coronaviru crisi economy determines the global economy - a stable economy, regardless of the low-carbon economy - comes next year.",1,test
1,"For the past 19 years the Security Council, a permanent member of the Assembly, has been able to help us. Democrat Sustainable Progress Afghanistan Example Over ‌com gathers the uncertain world of confusion. Thank you. Excel Antonio Guterres, Secretary General Unit Countries.",1,test
2,cultur heritag azerbaijani peopl territori today armenia demolish looted. Armenia also destroyed the territories occupied by the Azerbaijani histor religi monument. aim for Azerbaijani eras to trace there.,1,test
0,"sitat escala in the middle of a pandemic, threatens people's lives health risk of epidemic is considered increased. Circunst urg common world pays close attention to aral sea problem aral sea region.",1,test
1,"behind turkey success stori lie effect govern mechanize establish presidential governance system, develop high capacity infrastructure invest area health, qualified human resources.",1,test
0,"delay economic core private sector causes unforeseen increases unemployment rapid active unemployment benefit program self-employment program, social security programs, including food distribution program in the country, the nation's largest food program.",1,test
2,"albania’ osc voorzitterschap 2020 tangibl demonstr standvastig commit promot intern peac secur dialogu multilater cooperation, time raise tension polarization.",1,test
1,"Achieve success with counter-terrorism, the collective effort must be intensified in tackling the challenge collectively. Including combat finance terror terrorism. Kingdom Support Mani Internal Entity Contribute Reinfork Joint Effort Fighting Challenge. Kingdom Support Un-Terror Center Contributes $ 110 Million Global Center Fighting Terrorist Ideologist Ethid Riyadh. The state also hosts the Internal Terrorist Financial Target Center.",1,test
1,"Take the opportunity to convey your condolences and express your condolences to a Member State in solidarity, whose family has lost their love due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Mourning the loss of 1,000 people worldwide, covid-19, is a major concern with the alarm rate of the ongoing disease affecting one million people worldwide.",1,test
1,"In general, free global trade barriers, bans, restrictions, illegitimate sanctions would go a long way in reviving global growth and reducing unemployment. experts agree, partial total reduction in global employment in the second quarter of the year equals loss of 400 million jobs, maximum prevention of long-term unemployment ensure people return to work family support instead of finding imprisonment poverty perspective life.",1,test
1,"Ongoing work industry sector achieving net zero emissions, at least within the ""industry transition of the leading group"", kicked off in India last year 's climate summit. call ambiti nation determin contribution first agreement. puna ambiti outcom cop26 glasgow.",1,test
0,"Tight nationalist police make the issue of Intern Cooper Andman Cooper worse, better.",1,test
2,"Create an overeating hyper-contagious nature, stop measuring today Coffee counter events destroy it. Vaccination is a permanent solution to this. With that in mind, it encourages research all over the world to reach its goal. Promising though, the Reddy deal extends access to future vaccines. A true pharmaceutical company committed to ending up with huge financial resources must sacrifice human economic benefits. Therefore the next Covid-19 vaccine requires equal access, subject matter market forces are capable. Accordingly, Wellcome chooses the World Health Organization wha73.1 General Assembly Resolution, Vaccine-related medicines provided by the member country should be timely, equitable, high quality, safe consumption. Country Coordinates Welcome Covacs Easy Anti-Launch-Mechan Group Events Covid-19 Vaccines, Coordinates Global Illinois Vaccine Immunizations-Ensures Comprehensive Participation County Fair Access Access Vaccine Allocation Framework.",1,test
2,"act uniti management keep the number of cases low. today, record 261 reported cases, 192 cured. mortality covid-19 remains zero.",1,test
1,"To create a ""green corridor"" zone, one zone will be used, which will provide uniform transport assistance without delays at border checkpoints.",1,test
0,"mind, say three main points. First, talk about identifying the global health sector leading to the Covid-19 pandemic.",1,test
2,"Indeed, climate change needs a devastating impact on the population, in particular increasing poverty, exodus from the countryside, and the exclusive social tension between local communities and natural resources.",1,test
1,"Concerned Violenc pays tribute to Mozambique province Cabo Delgado, calling for the tragic terrorist action region Mozambique to fight the Greater Intern Commune Involvement.",1,test
0,"time, an instrument to unite the world to defend human rights, democracy, democratic institutions, defend the law, good government, sustain peace, ensure progress towards realization 17, sustain the development of objectives.",1,test
2,Armenia 2017 deliberate attack led to death 2-year-old grandmother Zahra Gulieva.,1,test
0,Adjust properly clean drinking water Source recognition Key sources of biodiversity protection.,1,test
1,"Disinformation hostility proved by covid-19 Clichy informs and addresses the human security of environmentally threatening internships. crisi demonstr needs access to reliable and accurate science-based information. Therefore, make sure that roleless, independent, account multidimensional media enhances transparency and account trust.",1,test
0,"secondly, according to the statutory basis of the United Nations, intern law must support the norms of modern internship relations. We must resolutely promote friendship and cooperation against conflicts and hostilities. should decide on the choice of dialogue, peaceful negotiations to establish a unilateral action. The spirit of the removal of the Vietnamese call unilateral sanctions affect the socio-economic development of countries, impose an embargo on the lives of the population, especially in Cuba.",1,test
0,"In general, free global trade barriers, bans, restrictions, illegitimate sanctions would go a long way in reviving global growth and reducing unemployment. experts agree, partial total reduction in global employment in the second quarter of the year equals loss of 400 million jobs, maximum prevention of long-term unemployment ensure people return to work family support instead of finding imprisonment poverty perspective life.",1,test
0,it is the antidote of the antidote to the power of the message which rises to violent extremes and undermines the security of peace.,1,test
0,"In fact, the devastating effects of climate change require the population, especially increasing poverty, rural migration, social exclusionary reciprocity natural resources.",1,test
1,"covid-19 Pandem The threat of current existence is not comparable to the safety of human health around the world. It overwhelms the health sector, disrupts the world's trade food supply chain, shatters the travel and leisure industry, and disrupts basic livelihoods around the world. alarmingli pandem intensifi vulner small economi makes you vulnerable to extrinsic shock. In addition, covid-19 threatens the interests of the reversal and achieves social achievements to achieve the sdg goals of the Sustainable Development Goals.",1,test
2,Covid Crisis exposes vulnerabilities. alreadi brink poverti left poor. Difficult reach health care found helpless. Limited educaise education lost hope of a better future. Even a stable developed state faces major economic and social difficulties.,1,test
1,"economy is weak, insuffici respons internal municipality rescheduling rescheduling concession financing, unemployment poverty is growing.",1,test
1,"The Iranian regime, the hostile attitude of the enemy, the oil-rich monarchy of last year violated last year's internal laws. So, the onslaught of the Internet money security proves that the global economy is neglecting the stability of the oil-supplying domestic markets. The Iranian regime also continues, Surrogates, Target Kingdom, Launching, Date, 300 Ballistic Missiles 400 Arm Drone uav Stark Violet unsc Solution 2216 2015 2231 2015. The Iranian regime's experience has taught us partial solution demands that threaten the security of the internal pack. The Internet Post Knowledge of the Resolved Company understands that the Iranian regime's fundamental solution is to attempt mass destruction of weapons, ballistic missile programs, interference of internal relations countries, support for terrorism.",1,test
0,"sudan expresses solidarity victim of terror worldwide countri suffer terrorist attacks. renews refuses to condemn terror in the form of manifest cooperation, access effect contributes bilateral internal effort terrorist financing. commits to implement internal relief resolved issu secur Council.",1,test
2,"in addition, also has in-countri capacity. can help people emerge from China China, can add an obvious topic. said, apply the principle of differentiation in the department that guides us for global disease. two things. the number one preservation of county kept the extent of viru destruction. the second is to keep the economi floating. damaged territory viru confid with quarantine station.",1,test
2,"Achieve the process order to join the Chad Call Arm Movement, Understand the Last Peace, Sudanese People Greatly Needed.",1,test
1,"One seychel job offered to a worker who made the COVID-19 virus redundant, for example, planted a thousand trees across islands. Write a global call to action to protect the costs of the natural environment. Restor Cookpari Health Balancing Ecological Human Well-being.",1,test
0,"Turbulent global environment, toxic unresponsiveness external debt speculative suspect another wave of delay underdevelopment.",1,test
0,"From the first day of the covid-19 outbreak in Uzbekistan, the resources of the focus effort contain dangerous diseases and, more importantly, save people's lives.",1,test
1,"Seventy-Fifth Anniversary Unit Year, Fit Note Institute has made great strides in peace reconstruction, promoting human rights, upholding development, and overcoming partisanship. An organization's main practice area promotes peak security, helping to keep peace and security Mani Live Restore Stable Secure World Plague Conflict Terror Violent Terrorism. Peacekeeping operations, a major troop-cooperative country trigo activity participant, improves improvement time. The fact that Wellcome in the right cases is increasing the resolution towards blocking the multidimensional approach.",1,test
0,"Reducing food consumption leads to the development of three dimensions - economic, social and environmental. The number of practical innovative tools related to food, to solve sensitive problems, to get rid of hunger, to eliminate human health from starvation. San Marino decides to reduce food consumption and preserve the practice of consuming products. To achieve this, it is necessary to collect the relevant issues, the emphasis requires immediate action. Why, according to the decision of the sponsor of Prince Andorra, San Marino 2019, the design consists of food waste on September 29 intern day.",1,test
2,"program, incorporated ods, prioritize pharmaceutical sovereignty in health, resili popul macroeconom financi stability.",1,test
2,"At the outset, I would like to extend warm greetings, Mr. Volkan Bozkir presides over the 75th session of the General Assembly, wishing that success fulfills the duties.",1,test
1,"Mr. The President, in the future the people want to move forward, the general support solutes the challenge, receives orders to sustain inclusive growth, offers the opportunity for due respect, always develops a civilized world, one lags behind.",1,test
0,"however, like innovation, digital technologies tend to spread unchecked and, like monastic weapons, they fall into the hands of various extremist conflict zones in the region, also leave prosperous countries, posing enormous risks.",1,test
2,"order share experiences road travel implement sdgs, successes, current emerging emerging challenge lesson, burundi submit voluntary nationwide review mechanism 2020. remain convincing that, order sdgs, adopt 2015 become a reality, requires additional commitment, initiative, effort and, all , resources.",1,test
1,"Zinc last quarter 2017, Bosnia and Herzegovina faced tremendous migration, a significant year further deteriorating. Due to the proximity of the migration routes, the European Union Territory among the major migrants is very far towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has a humanitarian problem, which solves a sufficient resource.",1,test
0,"us, sdg reson gut development plan basis principle gnh. reason, bhutan track becom earli achiev sdgs, shown voluntari review 2018.",1,test
0,"I hope that the dialogue will ensure peaceful stability in Afghanistan, which will last a long time.",1,test
0,The unit nation hopes to provide avoidance of families in the small states of Threat Mani where there is a commitment of political need.,1,test
0,"However, the Middle East afflicts significant political challenges that undermine the security of stabilized countries.",1,test
0,"facing a pandemic of vulnerable exacerbation, another driver of unemployment inequ upend world - 4th industrial revolution. the age of numbers on us challenges us to adapt in ways that consume, work, govern.",1,test
0,"managed commitment Issuing why, for the first time history, the creation of women ministers, gender diversity, a good cabinet of the nation, promoting gender police intersectoral.",1,test
2,"In addition, the Royal Government of Thailand also introduces financial responsibility whether low-income groups, female entrepreneurs, farmers and vulnerable groups guarantee support to ensure equal access. The focus of the effort helps financial fluid entrepreneurs maintain their business. Thank you. Set ""Center Economy Situation Administration"".",1,test
1,"""Chad Call Arm Movement Participation Process Order fulfillment understands the last peace and the Sudanese people are in great need.",1,test
2,"When it comes to Burundi's presence security council agenda, Burundi's injustice has always stated that it includes political reasons for the security council's agenda.",1,test
0,"can speak clearly, insufficient today. the necessary details of the work, in addition to the concrete of the sea, help practice, help people to live there. thus, fortli believes that, the subject of the aral sea needs an understandable systematics of good access to the legal document issued direct separation from activities un. in connection with, Turkmenistan laid the groundwork for the creation of a special program for the Aral Sea basin.",1,test
1,"CONVIC today needs multilateral cooperation problem threats viral diseases, full launch scientific diplomatic channels for broad, systematic purposes. In this regard, Turkmenistan's proposals to develop suitable internal equipment have been considered.",1,test
0,"To the 75th anniversary, a rare national multi-layer test, the global grappl covid-19 pandemic.",1,test
2,"Founding 75 years, Unity Nation faces a difficult history. must stop pandem succeeding in working together, collecting efforts and renewing stronger multilater cooperation.",1,test
1,"managed commitment Issuing why, for the first time history, the creation of women ministers, gender diversity, a good cabinet of the nation, promoting gender police intersectoral.",1,test
0,"Part, Government Continue Empau Utthan Garib Variety Poverty Alleviation Programme. Equipped with program enable beneficiary start micro small scale enterprise better survival. Program Utthan Beneficiary Income generation, generating subsistence to sustain poverty.",1,test
0,"Honorary speech representing the unit national general assembly of the year Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, due to the health crisis that causes the unusual situation, opportunities gather at headquarters, extreme imports exchange empirical views and maintain a continuous general rally session of unit nations.",1,test
2,"The Kovid-19 pandemic deepened the crisis on the African continent. Tunisia Stress Commits Continue Work African Brother Intern Partner Achieve Sustainable Comprehension Develop Overcom Challenge Faces Together. Reference, Reiter Silen Gun Support Africa. Initial efforts require greater internal aid orders for African sustained free conflict focus building development.",1,test
0,"War causes us human devastation, gathering displacement to destroy the wave led by society. Repression also causes, force disappears, the worst-case poverty people have seen for decades. Extend the peace of the hand. Highly cooperated Facilitation Efforts Unit Nation Current Special Envoy Mr. Martin Griffith, former envoy, see Save the Country Make the Last Peace. Target Bloodshed Yemen Yemen Destruction The Yemeni people accept the Iranian model region, regardless of the challenges of the situation.",1,test
0,See the need to increase collective efforts to prevent the spread of diseases today.,1,test
0,"zimbabwe new path. as the region of the nation, facing a humanitarian challenge, worsen illegal sanctions, negative impact on climate change, epidemic composed of the covid-19 pandemic.",1,test
1,"On the one hand, the final destination migrants of Bosnia face the only problem faced by the migrants of the geographical point of entry close to the European Union. Hand, Bosnia and Herzegovina, responsibly understand the situation within the European internal community, also needs stronger support from the European Union, and a whole trained community.",1,test
0,"The $2 billion socio-economic stimulus package ensures economic stability, tackles employment issues, ensures macroeconomic financial stability. The social relief measure covers about 5 million people, half the population.",1,test
2,"covid-19 pandemic union significantly reduces energy prices, accelerated acceleration efforts aimed at diversifying the economy. respecting, allocating increasing resources, investing in the agricultural tourism sector, recognizing the need to build incentives, policies, public partnership program. Moreover, the agricultural invest engend inevitably reduce the reduced demand for certain imported foods, maintain the financial limit the nation's accessible food security resources. also the continuous encouragement of women participation in agri-business, agricultural tourism remains understandable the fact that women undertake their role ensuring that the family receives the necessary food for healthy eating.",1,test
2,The statement fully confirms. Socioeconomics eases the final debt recovery of non-performing debt suspensions without regional reconciliation.,1,test
0,"Let's build the Covid-19 practice lesson in the future. As 75 years ago, the lesson of the two world wars led to a global commitment between nations to resolve differences over peace.",1,test
1,"Last year, the Albania Regional Conference ""Instrument for the Religion of Peace"", in partnership with the US State Department, aimed to promote freedom of religion based on human rights.",1,test
2,"Pandem Place Enom Pressure Avil Democratic Institute Functional Serio Consec Human Rights. Far Mani leaders rule opposition to silence attempts at use excuses, human rights defenders of civil society.",1,test
0,"Regards, Writer Urgent Needs Reform Agency Achievement Unsecurity Council will attend to better represent the people, the continent of the country.",1,test
2,"the pandemic reveals to us the need for a fragile re-creation to build bridge people, nation regions.",1,test
2,"Third, breach of contract is to undermine the confidence of the export critics for the good movement.",1,test
2,"Confidence improves multilayer bilater relationships of unpredictable human components, youth exchanges from people to people, cultural relationships, social education programs, well Cooper sports, science, technology, environmental health care.",1,test
0,"The Coronavirus epidemic has led to a number of areas of the national economy, including disruption of investment activities, foreign direct investment, domestic foreign trade, tourism services, especially the transport sector.",1,test
0,"finally could express appreciate mr. antoniogutres, Secretary General for Nations Unit, Competence, Selflessness, Zealous Organization.",1,test
2,"Samoa remains free of coyote, the extra life of Serio affects the nation, the people, yet the devastating viral disease of December 2019 claims the lives of 80 young people. The experimental test solution also strengthens the nation, the single resistance. Importantly, affirm the true partnership of trust investment.",1,test
1,"warn you realiti experience. tension yemen, syria, libya, iraq relatives of the state blatantly interfere arabic affair made state stir up discord, histor delus restor domin colony rule arab region horn africa. Consequences of brutal wars. Context, recal firm position, reject region, interfere with Arab affairs, demand full respect of sovereignty, exist completely internal legal norms.",1,test
0,"pandem place enorm pressure abilities democrat institute function serious consequence human rights. far mani leader rules uses pretext experience silenc opposition, civil society human rights defenders",1,test
1,You must allow Crazy to become an excuse for suppressing human rights freedoms. You must make sure that the limit must be proportional to the legal time limit vote. Principl should be applied globally.,1,test
0,"We firmly believe in mutual cooperation, creating harmony, mutual respect, and global response facing any plague.",1,test
1,"surinam focus strongli gener invests business opportunities. mainli reason administrator is developing the most widely used act sdg number 17, promoting the facilitation of clean corrupt free public-private partnership ppp.",1,test
0,"Pandem Expos Wolner Today 'World Highlight Worldwide nationwide development efforts, high level of port inequality, rampant climate change continue to discriminate against the elderly, poor communities, women and girls, undermining social cohesion.",1,test
0,"surinam focu strongli gener adds space. the main reason why the administrator is implementing more is implementing sdg number 17, promoting the promotion of public corruption without paying public ppp.",1,test
2,Pain lessons learn the urgent need of sinc outbreak pandem underscore continuous collection approach.,1,test
2,"Expecting the high pressure of the people, the meeting of the country's urging state response commit actions, which blunt, revision reform organizations, especially the key organs, including the Security Council, make the order better suited demand time. Strong faith more transparency, justice, equality democracy, strict respect sovereign Equal prestigious states, especially Africa, able organs write the new chapter existence. Finally, nations must be tempted. Let us move forward together, hope the people who develop peace remain determined.Mr. President,",1,test
0,"Follow the Sustainable Development Agenda 2030 Well Transitional Change Agreement Key Phase Facing The Biggest Challenge Today - Global Economic Instability, Social Inequality Increases Climate Change.",1,test
1,"believes global strategy cooperation complementary finance - a necessary economic approach. achieving a closer partnership imf, world bank wto.",1,test
2,"Over the past 75 years, the member state has established unity of peace and cooperation. Strengthening the world's largest multilateral organization, especially in the difficult period of the XXI century.",1,test
1,"In relation to the agenda of the Burundi 'Presence Secure Council', it has always been said that the agenda of the Secure Council of Burundi unjustifiably involves political reasons, selfishness, certain powers, not the welfare of the Burundian people in the way that threatens internal peace and security.",1,test
1,"Let Asura Zimbabwe continue to implement measures to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. Institute phase lockdown, follow world health organ guidelines, the regime also provide an economic stimulus package of zwl $18 billion approximately $720 million.",1,test
1,"Beginning, allow me, rule the Solomon Islands on behalf of the people, offer sincere condolences, a coronavirus lost love. Be united with all, in this time of sorrow.",1,test
0,"General Acceptance Multilator Diplomacy The three pillar units lead nations forward, namely, sustain development, adhere to Peak Secure Human Rights, Interlink Mutual Reinforcing, Special Mandate Charter Unit nations.",1,test
1,"take into account the initiative of the Secretary General, the plan of approval of the nation of Turkmenistan prepared to prevent the response of the level of acute infectious diseases. oper plan social economy measures turkmenistan counteract koronaviru pandemic also developed approved.",1,test
2,"Adoption of a program to sustain development until 2030. Money climate change agreement key step face the biggest challenge today - global economic instability, growing social inequality Climate change is changing.",1,test
1,"Despite the escalation of global threats, the UAE believes in an unprecedented transformation of the challenge of a great opportunity for the unit's efforts to build a trained institute capable of meeting the challenges of today's emergency. Last month the trainee demonstrated its worth to the threat that required collective action. Wise leadership. The trainee coordinator forgot to respond to implicit threats.",1,test
2,"Seychelles agrees on the need for Solidar Trainee Cooper facing the worst human economic crisis ever, and multilateral action advances developing countries.",1,test
0,"Sudan, despite change, blood martyr caused ten years of oppression, unjust backwardness, despite the short range of glorious revolution, transit period still facing some daunting challenge must overcom continue to support internal community friend order complete implementation of the government's plans. target address econom deprivation country to continue, especially under forgiveness sudan' debt grant soft loans, well committed friend fulfill promise announc sudan partnership confer berlin. dat, name Sudan must remove list country sponsor terrorism, country return fulli internal commun forc interrupt three decades. context, wish recommend recent step us administer our congress support transit government, incl. determine acceleration step drop sudan list terrorist countries.",1,test
0,"Order Share experience Road Travel Implementation sdgs, Success, Current Emergshiren Lessons, Burundi Submits Voluntary National Review Mecha 2020.",1,test
1,Year Celebrity Diamond Jubilee Unit National Organization. gratifi continu transforms the quality of live mani people around the world. Jubilee Sadrimer Covid 19 Pandem has brought the desire of the future to the Import Unity Effect Multi-Rator Cooper Build.,1,test
0,"reiter call relev countri relief effort brother sudan remove name sudan sponsorship list of state terrorism, tough difficulties facing deal with them. context, qatar stayed brother provided flood support well cause harm to the good people well, call the necessary internal community needed necessary support against natural disasters.",1,test
2,"Observe health care, govern the open economic regions of the country's centers, train staff, provide laboratories for critics, medical professionals protect equipment. scientific committee develops treatment plan. Various social measures taken to benefit the population, especially vulnerable sectors, to reduce the cost of water and electricity, to reduce basic needs, to distribute the food, to distribute a disadvantaged cash transfer program for citizens, and finally to to support the company. would therefore like to take the opportunity to express my sincere thanks to various partners who support Togo in the fight against the pandemic.",1,test
0,"Covid-19 significantly disrupts economies and societies around the world. Indeed, the Covid-19 Contour Contour usually reshapes things, putting us in the “new normal”. Therefore, the outside box should be considered, the outside box should also work. The member should collaborate to create a better country economy:",1,test
2,"testing currents in Sudan, with the exception of a tour due to unforeseen torrents, rain floods, exacerbates the challenge alreadi face. The Nile flood caused a serious loss of human life throughout the area adjacent to it. Great damage is also caused by floods from huge areas, including the partial total destruction of ten thousand homes. I would like, I respect, to pay tribute friendli brotherli countri demonstr solidar provid gener support respons catastrophe.",1,test
1,Reform Inclusive Secure Council ABL Collect Resolve World' Prolonged Struggle.,1,test
0,The Covid-19 epidemic brought the real face nations.,1,test
0,"“In addition, welcom launches coalit sahel, a grassroots agreement among the g-5 sahel countri partner pool effort resourc combat terrorism.",1,test
2,"The year 2020 is undoubtedly reminiscent of a dark time, the Indel Mark pandemic, whose devastating effect was to cause harm to the live performer - the performer wanted - collect.",1,test
2,"but, mentally, also led to an uncertain question in the future.",1,test
0,"Allow the conclusion to reconfirm the commitment to reviewing the Post-Covid-19 Multilateral Support topic session. Multilater compris Global Solidarity Collaboration Empathy Inclusive Resilience Import Note Protecting people at risk Addressing inequality Ensuring access to the universe Providing a medical vaccine for covid-19 Building back better Leaving the person behind. President,",1,test
2,"The continuing industrial sector achieves net zero emissions, at least in the “Leadership Group Industrial Transition” India Climate Summit launched last year. The Ambiti Nation determines the Partnership Agreement. Car Ambiti Outcome Cop 26 Glasgow.",1,test
0,"Across the world, the size of the economy affects the most vulnerable to the severe impact of COVID-19. Somalia, like every world, challenges pain contract economy, job losses need continued investment Original public service citizens Defend Deadly Virus. Appreciately, the post-conflict-like Somalia government's major task is responding to steady growth in the Rikov state. The challenge of divers lies ahead.",1,test
0,"finally, reaffirm thailand 'commit support agenda unit nation', peace security, development, climat chang management, commit human rights, promote partnership in various sectors. multilater guid us crisi together, done for 75 years, future peace triumph better world future generations.",1,test
2,"The open planet Kovid-19 is under severe stress, causing a new coronavirus, the consequences of which are socio-economic terms.",1,test
0,critical point on today's agenda. issu environmental protect climat chang continue to focus joint efforts.,1,test
0,"Unit National World Economy Situation Outlook Review mid-2020 report, experienced leader community, Pandem unleashes the unprecedented magnitude of the health economy crisis.",1,test
1,"bold drastic measure taken within domestic law to avoid double standard policies, yet another key factor in tackling challenges.",1,test
1,"build scientist, industri clinic experi doctor russia promptli develop medicin sounded test system detect treat coronavirus, register the world's first vaccine, ""sputnik-v"".",1,test
2,Make Sure the Country Is Left Behind Reiter Posit African Union Economy Sanction Zimbabwe Sudan Lift Government Response Adec Pandemic. Suspended interest payments are also known as 'external public debt' to Africa.,1,test
2,"from the point of view, the reiter urgently needs a reform body",1,test
2,"reason, along a nationwide journey trip always a multilateral lawyer solve humanity's intric problem.",1,test
2,"Aggressive Azerbaijan, Armenia continues to face deep demographic, socioeconomic crisis. Regime Chang Armenia Two years ago, fascist ideologues failed state remain unchanged.",1,test
0,"need concurr revitalis gener assembl make great efforts to renovate the safety council. local government, as before, needed a representative, as well as a collective, developed one. it is important to look at the diversity of rich cities. Secretary-General 'Abil' s challenge for the present is also dependent on the countries' financial political parties. this support continues.",1,test
0,"2020 Mark “Year Delivery” Power Sustain Developed Kingdom 50% Renewable Energy Spread, Project Delay Global Epidemic, Sudden Market Supply Chains, Tonga NDC Achieve Target.",1,test
1,"countries also call for peace. In context, the media firm affirms the legal rights of the three islands: the Great Tunb, the Lesser Tunb, Abu Musa, the Iranian violator of Iranian law, the violation of the charter, and the complete disregard for the historical record. therefore, demand from the owners of the right to return the UAA to Iran. The countries call for peaceful solutions to Iran, direct negotiations, justice. however, it responds to Iranian calls.",1,test
0,"Sign memorandum Fortes to metal group Chang leads Afghanistan Green Industry, Energy Intensive Product 20,000 MW Hydro Use Product Zero Amis Steel Product Estimated $ 1 trillion Minor Resources.",1,test
2,"The covid-19 immedy crisis, climate change remains the greatest threat to livelihoods and protects the people of Welbpacif in the long run. Last year, the leader of the Pasif Island Forum reaffirmed Kainaki ii's commitment and now declares urgent climate change measures. Shared Prosperity Security Blue Passif Safe Existence Intern Commune Pursuit Effort Limit Global Warming 1.5 ° C.",1,test
1,"basic moral legal reaction to the peoples, established, constantly confirmed, unconditional dialogue base common interest respect sovereign state way of resolving crises begin illegal blockade, the solution of which begins a blockade to lift.",1,test
1,"The Cove-19 Pandemic Accelerator government is pushing for public sector digitization. Set up a new routine, using a quick implementation remote platform instead of trading in private meetings. Optimistic Big Reliance Digital Platform Results Opportunity Young Field Relative Cyber ​​Technology Cyber ​​Security.",1,test
1,Interfering an apprentice is a restriction penalty affair measuring the opposite effect of absolute damage to all. past experience.,1,test
0,"During the year, due to low winter rainfall, the region's rivers were severely depleted, and low-climate irrigation caused severe drought.",1,test
1,Narrow nationalist policies undermine the intern cooper and make matters worse.,1,test
1,"The coronavirus pandemic certainly marks the world of the year, bringing to us a challenge that one can imagine. Already, taking hundreds of thousands of lives, misfortune has been sown around the world, families in suffering numbers, whose pain is sympathetic to.",1,test
2,"July intensifies, call intern communist respect ceasefire, conversation abstinence. Turkey, however, is the most line destabilized policy power project neighborhoods, the eastern Mediterranean, North Africa the Middle East, the South Caucasus, well, with spare effort fuel tensions. Unilator Support Expands Azerbaijan Military Present, Turkey Undermin Attempt Peak Stable Region, Well Effort OSC Minsk Group Co-Chair End. Turkey Directly Threatens Armenia Show Aggression Military Post'Ro Way Provocative Joint Military Drill Azerbaijan Close Vision Armenia Nagorno Karabakh. Turkish policy establishes kinship ties in the region, exploits conflicts, and justifies the crime of Armenian genocide. Turkey is a security threat in the territory of Armenia. Context, Armenia Continue Active Engg Region Internship effort maintains Peak Secure Dialogue collaboration.",1,test
1,"Unified humanitarian needs, a multilateral system of operations, respect for democratic sovereignty, participation in consent, rejection of the bill, imposition of economic sanctions.",1,test
1,"Let's recall the concession that has been made into a Quest Peac over the past five years. a month ago, the kingdom of saudi arabia led a unilateral alliance to support mr. Martin Griffith recently understood that a ceasefire would allow the political process to resume. however, regret efforts to support the obstinaci houthi terrorist militias that support the Iranian regime have failed. Even worse militias made opportunistic mobile attacks on governor towns, leading to massacres among civilians in Yemeni towns in the Sever region.",1,test
2,"The Kovid-19 pandemic has made us the victims of World War II — the enormous human cost phenomenon global impact then, now, the fork pay attendant has taken unprecedented action.",1,test
0,"Despite the global threats, believe UAE transform unprecedented challenge great opportune unit effort build internal institute capabl current emerging challenges. proven last month confront internal threat requires action sensible leadership forg coordinate internal response address implicit threats.",1,test
1,LIVE UNMATCHED TRI TIMES. Never leader require making a difficult decision close the border provid near absolute guarantee people arriv covid-19 pandem limit common transmiss virus. Uncertainty faces proof that the Mettl nation rules like never before. samoa extend sincere condolences a family lives lost due to the pandem pay tribute selfless service frontlin worker risk alive bring covid-19 control.,1,test
1,New Technolog Artificy Intelligent Allready Become Backbone Daily Live Busy Essence Public Service Running.,1,test
1,"twenty-six year old bomb headquarters of the Argentine Israeli mutual association, I wish to keep the initial 2003 policy continuing thereafter. call author islam republic iran cooper argentin judici author order advance investigate attack.",1,test
0,"The topic year debate reminds us of importing the major unit countries discovered later. Joint action of firm beliefs, respect for mutual harmony, the answer turned out to be facing the global challenge Ongopandem Communicate Disease covid-19.",1,test
1,together close cooper realiz dream aspiring afghan people.,1,test
0,"“The whole world is currently experiencing a devastating covid-19 pandemic. developing countries, especially African, owe multiple structural weaknesses, exposure and consequent scourge.",1,test
2,"Necessity brings suffering. Over time, we've learned to use a lesson that helps us develop a stronger impact that responds to future challenges. The future social landscape of the ""new normal"" seems to depend on the lonely generation, as well as the new generations of young people. You should all create space, and join the plan of asking for future cooperation that you want.",1,test
2,The speech will be completed without a strong appeal to disarm. The threat of the existence of a planet of life causes severe human suffering.,1,test
2,"Reja topic chosen session: ""the future wants, the nation needs unity: reaffirm collect multilater commitment - confront the effect of covid-19 multilater action"". The theme gives member states the opportunity to build general assembly work contribution. covid-19 pandem likely a challenging historic unit of nations. surely, the countri endur violent coup - still lasts - a long time. one forgets. San Marino among the countries affected by a severe pandemic. Viru caused death last month country, reason for celebrations. san marino continues to be a country that suffers the highest rate of contagion in the world, dramat consequ community.",1,test
0,"locked Mr. President, would like to reaffirm Albania's commitment to support the reform of the resumption of the rules-bass order, a single national center. we, the Member States, must, in part, support the strengthening of the multilateral system that benefits it.",1,test
1,"Free democracy, we are also committed to promoting university values ​​such as human rights, gender equality and the law.",1,test
0,"social protect cardin health system strengthen mitig neg effect pandem target support provid population, sector economi businesses.",1,test
2,"It's also experiencing a whole new pandemic. Diseases directly affect a million people who claim to import the thing: a million people live. Quarantines, border closures, and the troubled citizenry that is almost a state is a reality nowadays. Especially difficult old people who, due to the constraints of necessity, can hug love, children and grandchildren week even months.",1,test
1,"Coinciding with the 75th anniversary of the United States, the world critics' milestone following the outbreak of coronavirus. The celebr achiev, built as the fundamental units of nations, must reflect a challenging face. Today, the conflict has become a regional threat. Influential extremist groups are also growing. Increasing threat of cyber warfare The use of sophisticated weapons in the attack strategy area increases.",1,test
2,The 75th anniversary of the founding becomes the impetus to convert the movement of the limb into the body.,1,test
0,the vital import of disarmament ensures global security of peace.,1,test
1,"A term economic stimulus, governing the launch program for the Economic Impact Sector Animation includes a $7.25 million line of credit, a micro-medium-sized business offering affiliate pay that enhances employee retention, subject to $5 million from credit tourism stakeholders. He also launched the 5 pillars of economic recovery: supporting busi recovery, creating climate growth, improving management efficiency, strengthening the agricultural sector, and developing emergency economy.",1,test
0,"desire peac achiev israel 'full commit term refer decis intern legitimaci accept arabic over arabic peac initi based, israel tri circumv act Palestinian caus exist. arranged the term base refers to peace, even calls for peace. may intention solut Palestinian cause, achieve comprehensive and final peace.",1,test
1,"However, the implementation of the Kovid-19 Call Question Time as a consequence of the Economic Index Counter Sever Neg has consistent development goals, especially in developed countries.",1,test
2,"Concerned neo-hippies and their global warming, i'll tell ya.",1,test
2,"us, sdg reson well development plan base principle gnh. Reason, Bhutan track becom earli Achv sdgs, voluntary review shown 2018.",1,test
0,"Growing broad support Common African position Clear recent intergovernmental talks Member states express affirmation call True history Unjust Africa. Vein, wanting to encourage the Assemble Address, ezulwini consensu sirt declaration outlining the demand to adopt the long unjust Africa. Look no further Construction Attached Construction Progress Past Orders Received Improvements Secure Council Understands Sessions.",1,test
0,center develop people. substanti advanc human capacity need to improve health care education. result produces societi higher income better standard of living.,1,test
0,"Overcome the need for a short-term challenge. First, we must defeat Kovid-19 together. No one needs to understand us, the country is small, keep us safe and secure. Global cooperation is needed, less. Medical Supply Scientific continues to flow across the Kolhapur frontiers, requiring Intensive Exchange Infect Protocols, Rhythm Semplank “normal” life, including safe internet travel.",1,test
1,"syria, sustain peac achiev polit solut line resolut 2254 2015. sweden recent $ 96 million pledge crisis respons brussel 4 conference.",1,test
2,"Light high mortality rate devastating disease, high rate of spread, must be continued Mechanical multi-later offer us concept of internal solidarity, order intensification of the fight against disease, deterring loss of human life, revitalizing the economies of developing process countries.",1,test
2,countri make real progress addressing other global emissions left behind.,1,test
2,"The summit will also welcome the Biodiversity Summit next week. Express commitment to promote practical strategies for conservation of natural resources, use of various biological resources, development of mechanical recovery management.",1,test
1,"celebr 75th anniversary unit of the nation in the middle of the global pandemic - the place of the pandemic covers societies of pressure, communication families. I would like to express my deepest condolences live lost.",1,test
1,"However, success in the Somali joint venture does not mean healthy. According to official statistics, 3,000 Somalis have lost about 100 tragic live results. Painful manic diseases suffer from Covid-19 disease and remain vulnerable due to Somalia's poor health infrastructure.",1,test
2,"tonga continues to import oceans, strong connections continue to affect the effects of high wind chang around water.",1,test
2,"Romania continues to strongly support multilater rules-bas internal order, un core. romania is committed to cooper safer future all, promote sustainable development, respect human rights, peace security. future wants!",1,test
2,"pandemic, an important factor of state capacity, its ability to act.",1,test
1,"Take care of the citizens, find real basi cooperation.",1,test
2,"Iranian regime, hostile attitude line, target the kingdom of oil facilities last year in flagrant violation of domestic laws. thus, the internal peac secur assault proves the internal markets' contempt for the stable oil supply of the world economy. the iranian regime also continues, surrogates, target kingdom, launch, date, 300 ballista missile 400 arm drone uav violat unsc resolved 2216 2015 2231 2015. The Iranian regime experi has taught us that partial solutions are appeased against the internal threat to the security of the peace. includes the position of a solut company intern demanding to ensure the Iranian regime's attempt to achieve mass destruction of weapons, the ballista missile program, interference with countries of internal affairs, terrorism of sponsorship.",1,test
0,"Agenda 2030 support development goal stipulates that, ""support develop without peace support without development"". achiev persevere intern peace, must end the occupation. comply with the standard principle implement internal law un secur council resolutely must be guaranteed.",1,test
0,"yes, politicians, duti protect citizens. but viruses distinguish unilateral multilateralists. covid-19 a safe, each safe. that is why we avoid a form of 'vaccine nationalism'. developing a vaccine that came to a new racial moon.",1,test
1,Center for Human Development Significant human capacity building requires health care education. The result is a higher product of society than a better standard of living.,1,test
2,"75 years of united nations, many things to be proud of. Global cooper results, controls that prevent large-scale collisions and reduce human suffering.",1,test
1,"Third, breaking the treaty is a good move by exporter critics to turn people into countries of trust.",1,test
0,"The devastating effect on the charismatic economy is undoubted! The fall in economic growth has resulted in SAARC foreign exchange shock commodity prices, a sharp decline in exports, remittance inflows, and a global economic crisis similar to that seen in the 1930s.",1,test
2,"therefore, in order to develop the future generated aspir, one must share the human harmonious legal nature.",1,test
1,it would also enable 100 percent digit competition to help bring out the advantages of world technology.,1,test
1,"The Seychelles maintains protection of nearly a third of the oceans, maintaining climate action.",1,test
2,"full responsibility, Russia proposes to convene the G5 summit. would reaffirm the goal of reaffirming the key principle of conduct internal affairs, to work out the way to solve today's combustion problems. Promotion of the partner support initiative. expect hold summit - person - soon enable epidemiological situation.",1,test
1,Drought floods occur in Afghanistan. The local solution base internal model address problem requires climate change.,1,test
0,"third, covid-19 pandem serv stern warns us all, demands stronger action, initiates stronger action, promotes sustainable, inclusive and people-centered development. 2030 program support develop continue framework cooper overcom pandem support the recovery. policy action interest people heart, one, country, left behind. develop financial assistance received by countries, commercial technology facilit realiz support development goals.",1,test
1,"must constantly lose sight of poverty. view, greatest scourge of humanity, main cause of famine, land degradation, unbridled exploitation of natural resources, arms conflicts, population movements, south-north migratory flows continue to cost human lives.",1,test
0,"decis establish ""green corridors"" region use one, allow smooth transportation assistance, without delay the border administration crossing points.",1,test
1,"anoth instanc A one-sided global financial system organization has restricted membership, ""blacklisted"" Univers and withdrew its relationship with banks. Blacklists in small countries dare to exercise sovereign rights and force the Taxat system to create voice settings for competition rules.",1,test
2,"live three times at the same time. A leader never requires a tough decision, which guarantees that the border is close. The power of the nation will be tested as never before. The self-sacrificing servant at the front who was killed in connection with the pandemic, who expressed condolences to the families of Samoa, puts the control of life covid-19 at risk.",1,test
2,"Mind, focus on three main topics. First, collect the collected response.",1,test
0,"order to strengthen the adaptation of mitigation, regulate the development of the policy adaptation plan responsible for climate change. works civil society, academia, internal partners, accelerated implement the commitment of peer agreement.",1,test
0,"Welcome, led by the Brazilian Ministry of Defense, received nearly 400,000 Venezuelan displacement results Deep political economy Chrissy Breed Venezuela's dictatorship.",1,test
1,"World face period prolong the turbulence. multilateral system confront nationalism, xenophobia, reject free trade, global economic integration, two-column technological supply chains. Threat new. Covid-19 fact accelerators reinforce existing trends. Protection unilateral action ultimate self-destructive.",1,test
0,"a global crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic providing an opportunity for renewed challenge overcoming. saw devastation health economic impact vortex feel living pain results. nation, matter with good resources, immunized. however, despite the lack of ordinary suffering, the fear of Covid-19 continues, exacerbates all the alredos, there is a bay, a fragile state develops, which makes the family. something must avoid cost-solving today's major global challenges, including uncertainty, climate change, confidence growing inequality, the driver of many disagreements around the world, depends on the effect of cooperation multilateral action contribute to the development goal.",1,test
1,Connect Call Unit Country Internal Region Organ Support Tajikistan Accelerates Central Asia.,1,test
2,"Sudan, Despit Chang repressed Shahid Dekad, backwardness of injustice, Despit Achiev was done during the short period of the Glorio Revolution, the transit period still faces serious challenges, it must overcome the constant support of domestic partners to implement government programs. Leave the target address of the countries' economic problems, first of all, among the auxiliary loans through the debt of Wow Sudan, be well committed. That is, the name of Sudan should be removed from the list of countries that support terrorism, the countries should be completely eliminated for three decades. Text, We wish to appreciate our recent move in managing the transit government to support Congress, including accelerating the listing of countries on the Terrorist List.",1,test
2,"The President of the Republic, a precise consensus government, used the benefits of Covid-19 to establish an economic recovery program, people in the center, re-economy, short-term, medium-term. It means stopping losing job income",1,test
0,"The world of the current situation is complex, the unstable turbulent background is growing geopolitically, geo-economic competition is widening the modern threat challenges, especially the spread of coronavirus disease.",1,test
0,"In Somalia, authorities have recently been working to reduce the incidence of covid-19 disease. as governments across the world, prioritize citizen health in ways that can save lives. specific drugs that change, improve public health information, effectively regulate populine safety. case covid-19, this pandemic rises rapidly, the fallout leads to a rapid government intervention.",1,test
2,"Responsible leadership means liking the common world interest. Contribution to the best existing architecture intern organ regime. Often driver impact solutions. Work is always perfectly known. Instead of paying them back, you need to find a way to improve them.",1,test
1,"spirit of solidarity management priority sync arrival pandemic poverty, a safe, everyone safe.",1,test
0,"First, the global field multilayer mechanic should be strengthened. Unit Nation Truly Cell Content, Every Member, Large Small, Rich Poor, Voice Critical Matter Needs General Concerns. Multilator Cooper Initi Peace, prosperity should be developed. Improvements have been carried out to fulfill the role of fulfilling a strong impact organ synchronization interest behavior state face monument Chang time.",1,test
2,"Fighting Plastic Pollution, Alert Concern Tonga 12 million tons of plastic waste seeps into the oceans annually. Pay close attention to the title of the threat, start the process of banning one plastic. The problem of the national region, also a global problem, requires a global solution.",1,test
1,performing such weather practices retains the increase in weather conditions and prevents air pollution from entering the plant.,1,test
1,"In April 2016, Armenia launched a major military offensive in Azerbaijan. As a result of the attack, 6 civilians azerbaijani, including one child died, 26 people were injured.",1,test
0,"therefore, the appeal to the forum strengthens cooper strengthens the fundraising mechanism of action which together can cope with the spread of the covid-19 pandemic. must strive to achieve the theme of the session: ""the future wants, a need of the nation: reaffirm the fundraising, the multilater commitment - confront the multilater action of the covid-19 effect"".",1,test
2,"For the entire 75 years the unit nations have existed, Common Thread Tapestry Collect Action Recognition Global Challenge Best Overcome Practical Multilateral Base Mutual Respect Trust. Demonstrate true spirit anytime The global partnership reaffirms rules-based commitments.",1,test
1,"On the occasion of the 75th anniversary the current Covid-19 epidemiological resuscitation rules-base multilayer system should be taken advantage of. Inclusive economic growth envisages sustainable development. Abil Response Future Shocks Need to Strengthen, Covid-19 Clear Current Example Shock, ABL Response Multilator System Needed.",1,test
1,"Turkmenistan Activist Launches Essential Measures Counter-threat epidemic begins to spread around the world. Time to avoid impact, unified nation strategies form coronavirus transition, with major organizational, legal, financial, economic, medical hygiene quarantine.",1,test
2,"development of the area, organization adopt the 2015 2030 agenda support further develop ambiti tool to ensure the well-being of peoples. 2030 Agenda, capital to experiment with the Millennium Development Goals, integrate the three dimensions support development - economic and social environment - transversal approach. a body also excellent in the promotion of human rights. The domestic human rights standard flourishes in various fields, in particular with regard to women and children.",1,test
2,"well known, ancient culture rich spirit heritag region world importance.",1,test
0,A number of verifiviolat children are still worried about education and one priority is still attacking. Especially worri's influence covid-19 Arm clashes of vulnerable groups of children.,1,test
0,There is a need for a financial-economic vision that defines the Below Global Strategic Caliber. Get a close partnership with World Bank wto.,1,test
1,"although the jury is still reforming, the delegation's observation management reform brought clear response from the improved organization. however the trust remains complete, encourage key general organ reform efforts.",1,test
1,"complex problems about a neighbor making a difficult decision, consider the interests of interested parties.",1,test
0,"Consideration, the existing situation must make use of the promot's system-internal coordination support.",1,test
2,"never human story mani opponent abl want to do, honest creator wants to create. the network allows us to instantly connect the best mind in any world. network enabl us connecting peopl interests, aspir vision world. speaks an individual point of view. imagine how humanity does it.",1,test
0,"unity kingdom also urging unjustified excess militari presenc islands, bring tension area character peace internal cooperation.",1,test
0,"Azerbaijan took time to prevent widespread outbreak of the virus Millennium Achieving Azerbaijan Development Goal Progress towards achieving the goal of sustainable development enables us to be effective in combating the epidemic. Azerbaijan's healthcar infrastructure has been significantly modernized, with almost 700 health care centers completely renovated in the last 17 years.",1,test
2,"let's wrap up, mr. president, reiter sierra leone 'call to establish resili healthcar infrastructur service shorten protect people risk covid-19. how the common intern restores trust, financial stability, market creation, the environment, support for global trade, investment and job creation. It must delay progress towards achieving the sustainable development goals.",1,test
0,"Reform Secure Council Key Aspects Process change can be complete without fundamental reform. End, Kingdom Eswatini Wish Reiter Africa' Call Permaman Membership Secure Council Accord Ezulwini Consensus.",1,test
0,"pandemic rapidly growing divisions around the world are well trying to weaken democracy. however, the period facilitates the spread of misinformed misleading information, the possible spread of violent extremism.",1,test
2,"""In an additional unhealthy health human toll, the epidemic marks the left indel global economy. Across the world, the country suffers a sudden shock economy. In addition to challenging the imminent current crisis, more Foku recovery epidemics are needed. Appreciation Efforts develops a variety of inland organizations, unit countries, WHO, non-aligned countries movement, African Union AU, Commonwealth, intergovernmental author Igad East African com EAC, among others, coping with the epidemic.",1,test
0,"Along the pandemic, draw attention to the challenge of misinforming misinforming the pandemic. spreading the “infodemic” putting a health risk, increasing the risk of conflicts, violence, human rights violations of mass atrocities. covid-19 crisis demonstrates a critical need to access free, reliable, trustworthy, factual and clear scientific information. states, regional organizations, media workers of actors in the United Nations system, the social media platform of NGOs whose role is clear, help people manage the “infodemic”. the countries attach a great fight against the disinformation to the importation. reason, organ 2019, san marino, high-level impart misinformation about the danger. reason, join year interregional declaration “infodemic” context covid-19 joint nation support unit respons initiate “verified” campaign announce a general secretary april.",1,test
0,"South Africa reaffirms the ideal spirit of the Charter of the United Nations, and extra efforts bring about a world of just peace.",1,test
1,"The turbulent global environment, toxic irresponsible external debt speculative purpose means another wave of delayed underdevelopment.",1,test
0,"The current director of Sedgwick Organ Politics, a partner of Definite Secure, Botswana is committed to ensuring close attention to the Peck Stable Seddick area in the face of the security threat of the fight against terrorism.",1,test
0,"“climat chang remains one of the biggest challenges. continuous white climate change disaster around the world result consider loss life property. clear land-immune disasters. address climat chang call effect fat multilater action us. Uganda, for example, continuous experiences prolong droughts, melt ice cap highest mountain, mount rwenzori, floods, errat rainfall landslides. recent experience impact intense prolong rainfall increase level large body water cause flooding sever area land. govern continuous investment adjust climate mitigation measures includ expand access use clean energy order increase production, increase well forest wetland coverage, determine line ambition determine contributions. invest enable stop, reduce reversals environmental deterioration adverse effects climate change, good improvisation support use of natural resources including economic growth.",1,test
2,"Epidemic, the highest emphasis in food production. Over time, the measures taken ensure adequate supplemental nutritious people. Special adjustment indust industrial driven market agricultural production ri industrial output keeps a perfectly consistent health guide. As a result, the health sector economy is still in good shape. Disappointing Covid-19-induced stable global industrial production, GDP registration growth rate 5.24 per cent, expected 7 per cent in the next financial year.",1,test
2,"Although there are many challenges to be faced, Collective, Forward, Slowly, Consistently, Forge Agri Systems Rules Ideal Better, Stronger, Transparenter Than Ever Before. The result was the internal system that advanced human liberty exceptionally, gained respect among the people, sought the alleviation of the poverty of billions in view of the prosperous global economy.",1,test
2,"Vietnam pursues foreign policy independence, self-reliance, multilater diverse relationships. reliable partner active, response member intern community, vietnam attachment import work un expand includes cooper organization. viet nam work member state makes undemocratic, transparent effective.",1,test
0,"new type industrial revolution, combined pandemic, rally execution of the current challenge plan, but unga leadership manag creativ transform an effective, efficient, conveni experience much less risky. I want to congratulate excel volkan bozkir assuming chairing the 75th unga session, as well as the success overcoming a particular challenge, the massiv host brings together the global leader of the pandemic.",1,test
0,"Ordered to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, the Chinese government launched the Socio-Economic Resilience Program Fund in the amount of 1,000 billion CFA francs, $1.6 billion.",1,test
1,"From the first day of the covid-19 outbreak in Uzbekistan, the resources of the focus effort contain dangerous diseases and, more importantly, save people's lives.",1,test
2,"would like to start intervention congratulations excel mr. Volkan Bozkir President-elect General Assembly, would also like to congratulate Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, Secretariat Unit Nations. celebr 75th anniversari unit nation assemble people world, creat primari object construct multilater way implement system value code behavior base cooperation, no doubt remember years sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook pillar societies.",1,test
2,The covid-19 pandem brought the realiz directli face country.,1,test
1,"Sierra Leone Ritter is committed to a multifaceted effort to bring about the elimination of colonies, supporting the adoption of decadal action. Remaining the proper goal of a truly fundamental single nation, remaining a historic colony of absolute necessity during the period 2021-2030.",1,test
1,"consider healthcare, regulate the country's open dedicated economic regions, train staff critic's laboratory, medicine protection equipment. the scientific committee develops a treatment plan. taken various social measure benefit population, particularly vulnerable sectors, mitigate pandem impact order - reduce electricity water water, remove basic tax needs, provide food distribution subsidy disadvantage novice citizen cash transfer program, and, finally, business support. therefore would like to take opportune time to express my sincere thanks to several partners assisting in the fight against the pandemic.",1,test
2,"denial of power help to revive the economy - whether refinancing moratoriums, even access to a concession loan - causes us greater economic difficulties.",1,test
1,"Part of Solomon Island, the commitment to reduce the nation's doubling carbon footprint remains determining the contribution to the tina hydropow project. A 15 megawatt hydropower project reduces fossil fuels by 70 percent. Despite the challenge brought by the novel coronavirus, the Effort 2024 commissioner, the path, constant communication, partner development, remains our unwavering path.",1,test
1,"the single kingdom also insists on an unjustified surplus of military cross-islands, bringing tensions character peac trainee cooperation.",1,test
0,"Once again, it will be possible to respond to success without the influence of government partnership and citizen-trained partners. We want to pay a special tribute to courag duti health workers risk live save others. Also recognizing the contribution to the Somali private sector, business governance, maintaining the performance of the economy, and providing a vital service to critical Somali people.",1,test
2,"tajikistan experiences the horror of civil war, values ​​the perceptible import well and protects peace.",1,test
2,Optimists are implementing a second round of reforms that will help improve the world's bank ratings.,1,test
0,"continued extreme violent terror against a serious threat nation peopl intern peac security. scourge aggravate ongo exploit crisis activ organ crime certain regions of countries. threaten the target state themselves, social cohesion efforts develop democracy.",1,test
2,"part of the award-winning, sweden-togeth 15 non-nuclear states' ongoing attack on Stockholm's nuclear arsenal, the aim of which makes the npt conference a thorough review.",1,test
2,"celebrating the 75th anniversary of nations, the right reflection is coming. unit nation stood lofts ideal building system for interns collaboration common goal. the system allows us to collect a bill to call choos conflict peace, we recognize digniti people of equal value. valu everi an input that we make towards the end.",1,test
2,"covid-19 infection also induces human immunodeficiency, leading to impaired survival. must have a full understanding of how close a person is to economic recovery.",1,test
1,"indeed, pandem impact unprecedented aspect of human life. meeting the global challenge requires re-engaging the state effect multilater trainee cooper central role unit nations.",1,test
1,"the year marks the fifty-fifth anniversary resolution 2065 xx, first approves the question body of the malvina islands, the call of the unit of argentina kingdom keep the order of negotiations we reach peace definitely solut sovereignty dispute.",1,test
2,"Respectfully, the response plan prepared by San Marino Wellcome Strategy addresses the immediate health needs, global humanitarian response plan East Impact 63 Highly Vulnerable Countries, Uncovid-19 Respondent Recovery Fund, Socio Economy Respondory Middle-Lower-In. republ San Marino Support Un-Secretary-General's call for ceasefire, issued March 23 In addition, Join the Secretary-General of the Country 'The importance of the global call is to end the abuse of women everywhere, including at home.",1,test
2,"On the issue of Libya, Reiter Welcom's suspension agreement agrees on the outcome of the Skhirat Agreement, and Achieve understands that it will maintain Libya's sovereignty, consolidate territory and maintain wealth. Benefichi understands Impos Impos Military Regim Folk Livia.",1,test
1,"Thus, the contact tribune amplifies the Cooper amplifier and assembles the mechanism of action, which, together, may lead to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Must work towards the goal of the achievement session: ""The Need for the Future, a Unified Nation: Re-Emphasizing Multi-Stage Commitment - Countering the Multi-Stage Action of the Covid-19 Effect.""",1,test
2,"the truth is, uncertainty at the final level makes it difficult to predict the future, the answer to a question with three addresses would be simple.",1,test
1,"While the pandem shakes with a strong global economy, as Serbia manag spends its budget, a complete monetary system blocking economic aid, opens investment plans.",1,test
0,The 75th anniversary of its founding became an impetus to transform the dynamism of organs into a body.,1,test
1,The Challenge Face Term Health sector also specifically highlights cases of noncommunicable diseases. Seven out of ten deaths are non-communicable diseases caused by Solomon Island. The largest single cause death country.,1,test
2,"year of the theme 'generate an appropriate timely debate. need to reconfirm commit multilateral face facing the covid pandemic 19, shape ""the future you want, need nation unity"".",1,test
0,"We, the United Nations Foundation, Chang grow. Convincing the best global approach to the challenge of joint action.",1,test
0,"encourage welcome fact albanian factor continuous support european euro atlant cours throughout the region, strengthen time region cooper ownership ambition projects.",1,test
0,"the covid-19 pandemic comes with a change in the priorities of humanity, a consequence of human life. the pandemic made the evidence uneven world sharpen it. Unfortunately, the risk pandemic is widening the socio-economic disparities between countries. the trainee community as a whole must ensure global coordination that meets the needs of the nation, help create a stronger economy that includes societies.",1,test
0,"crisi necessarili bring suffering. time, teach us to use the lesson, help us to develop a stronger effect to meet future challenges. The future “new normal” social landscape looks like one generation, as well as new generations of young people. together must create the gener space join the hand collaboration future control plan want.",1,test
1,"Decades like this, rich closed link issue literature has access to high spa connectivity. Secretary-General's Roadmap Digit Cooper urges television to create work broadband commission initiatives.",1,test
1,"The covid-19 pandemic made us the second world war generated a huge global impact of the phenomenon of human cost so, now, forc pay attention to take unprecedented measures.",1,test
0,"insisted, further asserted, that no point in the dialogu of various interests honoring the state government in a solv crisi manner initiating an unofficial lockout, which solut raises the lock.",1,test
2,"The root cause motivated by a clear concept to eliminate manac terrorism promotes terrorism, a common global approach to specific terrorism.",1,test
2,"Consequently, South-South cooperation, with the exception of North-South relations, expand the accent expansion that collects economic business interests.",1,test
1,"internal compani illeg exploit azerbaijan ’natur resourc occupi territories face legal liability, do not stop the illicit assets immediately. azerbaijan alreadi start take legal action person compani illeg exploit natur resourc occupi lands.",1,test
1,"Forces us internally commun embrac multilater effect wise win fight best defends future global threats, keep searching effect means supporting small vulnerable nations.",1,test
2,"covid-19 a certain crisis time is coming. the number of deaths worldwide is constantly growing, the global economy, trade, travel disruption. millions of jobs hund thousands lost alive.",1,test
1,The Covid-19 crisis brought a strong Realiz import from Solidar Cooper - among the multilateral organizations of the World Health Organization.,1,test
1,"Covid-19 brought Solomon Island closer to the partners. made new friends, the latest ""Philippine Red Cross"", a student fantastic work test in Manila. grel excel work red cross continuous citizens.",1,test
1,"“The G20 leader supports various aspects of lowering interest rates, and pardons them. then, budget opportunities are impossible. except for measur requir facing an unprecedented problem. Prosperity without the unity of workers. ”",1,test
2,"Covid-19 pandem time reminds but interconnection. the world teeters on the edge of uncertainties, it needs ""one national unity"". global solidarity unifi respons better shielding pandem socio-economic impact faced by people. Recognize the support of a development partner Ongoing assistance Effort to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. I hope that success will develop the vaccine with a uniform and uniform distribution. Let's spread friendly virus faster, hate, fear of misinformation.",1,test
1,"Mani Situate needs to consider gender equality, attention to children, protection of the elderly, disability of non-discriminated people. Reality The present, uncertain future experience past shows that we need to teach valuable investment efforts so that the school ably meets the increasing demand. Success social support growth human capacity education training.",1,test
0,"no doubt, last year showed Ukraine realli striving for peace. manag conversations to open, resume meeting with normandi system officials, have real progress releasing detainees. beginning on July 27, recognizing a place of unending tension, which, with its focus on disrupting it, still offers hope that it will promote chaos. badli should continue to have true peace.",1,test
2,"In general, barriers to free world trade, bans, restrictions on illegal sanctions would be a great help in reconsidering global growth, reducing unemployment. According to experts, the total halving of global employment will lose 400 million jobs in the second quarter, which will prevent a long-term increase in unemployment, thus supporting the return of people.",1,test
1,"For the past 75 years, the member states of the Union have continually overcome global challenges. During the year, the world faced a health crisis. Covid disease - 19 widely affects the socio-economic system of the people - overshadows the UN special nature 75. Indeed, the great challenge must be to test the faith of several united member states and to continue the threat of overcoming the solution.",1,test
2,"also essenti consid conduct cooperation, adopt a multidimensional approach go beyond the per capita income determine the eligibility criteria offici develop oda assistance. 60% of the poor live in middle-income countries. service countries, demonstrate solidarity understand the real progress built by everyone involved, make a small steady progress achieve maintain development goals.",1,test
1,"Bray also defeats Minak's global terror efforts to make the brave Armor Fork Caliber Amisom Internet Partner a safer place in the world. Continued support of credible government efforts supports domestic partners, Somalia contributes to KUWID-19 Positive multilateral efforts make the world better, equal space is needed for all.",1,test
0,"convincing today needs comprehensive, purposeful multi-lateral system copper problem danger of viral diseases, full launch of channels of scientific diplomacy. In this regard, Turkmenistan proposed to develop the establishment of appropriate instruments.",1,test
1,"million people around the world lost their livelihood in pandemic. social dialogu workplac help mitigate impact of pandemic solutions. need support transit global labor market, issu work close president south africa, cyril ramaphosa, co-edit ilo report future work. sweden invite country join global deal partnership decent work including growth.",1,test
0,recovering objective effort lead us to sustain future resilience requires recognizing economy recovering depend on ecology health. reviv econom activ spends environmental sustainability.,1,test
0,"1945, unity nation emerges devastating war history. organ led way tackl univers challenge creat institute framework made significant progress area import human rights, poverty eradication, consolidation of democratic institutions, fight climate change promote support development, also ensure protection of vulnerable arm conflicts. thanks multilateralism, unity nation can often reach an area traditional diplomacy not. even the time present one, pandemic exposes weak states, unity nation continuously see cooper antidote confrontation. perspective, wants to propagate work organ, in particular Secretary General, in the fragile current situation which, unfortunately, shares the common point of the scenario that has led to unity nations.",1,test
1,"social protection health system cardin strengthening the negative mitigating effect pandemic aimed at supporting the provision of the population, businesses of the economic sector.",1,test
1,"Constituency Declare 17 August 2019 Receive the Second Phase Victory Revolution, Make Peak Put War War Top Priority Transit Government. The juba process is initiated on the basi. Simple talks two war parties, past, process dialogue partner uprising sequence Peak Sesat war, root cause conflict resolve nicely. Juba Peak Agreement 3 October.",1,test
2,"Attack - Know - Restrict unrestricted enforcement. May 3, Venezuela launches naval effort to attack mercenary terrorist groups, train government finance unit trains Colombian territory, full support for the United States Colombian governments terrorist group counters with the Civil-Military Police Union, attack perpetrators , Venezuela arms, neutral arrest, judicial order",1,test
0,"see partner involved internal nation level one key accelerated factor implementing the 2030 agenda. middle-incom country, belaru believ separ un strategists promote sustain develop - line similar document group develop countri - necessary success achieve sustain develop goal categories states.",1,test
0,"The fact that the ""brilliant hurricane"" in the implementation of the 2030 agenda will inevitably exceed the threshold of retreat, threatens to achieve the goal of progress in a timely manner. In all, millions of families have killed millions of people around the world.",1,test
1,"pandemics also identify serious ethical, technological and humanitarian issues. For example, advanced digit technology helps to quickly reorganize education, business services, distance education, and courses for people of different ages. artifici intellig help the doctor to make an accurate diagnosis at the right time to find the best treatment.",1,test
1,"conclusion mr. President, wishes to reaffirm the reform of Albania’s support to restore order to the rule base, the nation’s center of unity. we, the member states, must endure strengthening the multilateral system in order to benefit from it.",1,test
1,"economic impact social pandem felt mani year came. recovered a long cost process, specifically vulnerable. global solidarity, internal effect polit cooper commit critical sustain respons recov build back better.",1,test
2,Count everyone,1,test
1,"Nuclear deterrence, in particular, creates an ethic of fear, base threat, method of mutual annihilation, ending a relationship, poisons people, obstructing dialogue. Import support principle of internal legal instrument nuclear disarmament, ban nonprolifer. In Holley's view, the Confidence Review initiates a partial treaty non-proliferation outcome as a result of a concrete action agreement and a common intent to ""achieve the earliest possible date of the nuclear arms race.""",1,test
2,"marine environmental resources remain critical of peopl trinidad tobago living, sustain development. govern the constant priority of the ocean. Unfortunately, as a result of the global pandemic, the fourth intergovernmental session gives the intern the mandatory instrument national unit convention law conservation of the sea supporting the use of marine biologists in areas beyond the nation's jurisdiction. given the critical phase negotiations, trinidad tobago remains the hope of early resumption, the completed success would receive benefits for humanity.",1,test
1,"therefore pivotal moment transform crisis new opportun revit secure peace agenda, strong emphasis on conflict prevents consolidating peace processes. effort context peace must become more and more efficient. also support greater integration principle response protect action project focus prevention.",1,test
1,"Order continuous active participle created stable security, Albania elects current candidate non-permanent member safe council, gives mandate on 2022-2023.",1,test
0,"“Leader lowers interest rates in favor of G20 Favor Multilator Organ Loan Debt is highly indebted, forgive him. Happens, payment is tampered with impossible fiscal space. Facing an unprecedented crisis without criteria. Intern Cooper progresses without unity.",1,test
2,"The meeting for which the extremes of the world happen is a unique context always. The result of human tragedy encourages multi-stage experimentation so that we can act decisively alongside stopping the pest. Welcome to the plenary session of the genre ""The Future, the Need for a Unified Nation: Re-Applying Multi-Layer Commitment - Approving the Multi-Step Action of Covid-19"". Mani paths, the theme symbolizing the anxiety of the pervasive environment, force us to unite. Covid-19 pandemic sacrifices us, success stops, a united effort with a comprehensive effort to fight the epidemic, prevent people from returning to extreme poverty. The unfortunate reality of a comprehensive effort to elicit the Covid-19 pandemic includes sustainable development goals, including regional health, proper work hunger. Hence, a coordinated and global approach to dealing with an appropriate epidemic is taken by the domestic community. With this in mind, from the very beginning of the Secretary-Jenner, who launched the National System of Global Accountability at the outbreak of the epidemic, the epidemic government guided and advocated for unintended consequences of the epidemic.",1,test
1,"un made notabl Practice Peak Secure agenda, still a lot of work to be done. Kovid-19 increases volatile conditions. Increasing inequality, poverty, hand conflicts, terrorism insecurity and more. People Flea Home Search Refug Safety New has become commonplace. The threat of nuclear use is still there.",1,test
2,"Mr. President, the future wants the people to go one step further. The challenge of resolving public support arises.",1,test
2,"I also admire the doctors, paramedics, nurses, technical staff, volunteers and dedicated work of Manny, the month of keeping healthy lives, people are different part of the world.",1,test
1,"""In relation to, import continuous work cohr target activation strengthen G-5 Sahel order response impact challenge product tangibl results ground term secure development.",1,test
0,"We would like to have a chance ever, a permanent member of the Security Council helps us achieve ultimate state sovereignty, democratic unity in Afghanistan, a region of peace and can sustain and expand the gains of the past 19 years. Stable Democratic Prosperity Afghanistan Collection Example Overcoming turmoil and uncertainty defines the world today. Thank you, my excellency Antonio Guterres, Secretary General of the Unity of Nations.",1,test
0,"un secretary general alreadi initi essenti work. reforming and aligning to meet new challenges, as well as fostering consensus building among Member States' emerging issues. need continue to emphasize long-term problems such as support small island developing state least developed countries.",1,test
0,"third, reconstruction must continue to import labor so that the resistance can meet the challenge posed by the digital revolution, cyber threats, climate change, cross-border pollution.",1,test
1,"First, let him also express, on behalf of the people of Sierra Leone, the elimination of the deep death of a single member state of the Member State due to the Covid-19 epidemics. Greetings to the dedicated front line in responding to global emergencies",1,test
1,"In 1945, the emerging unit nation ruined the history of devastating warfare. Organ-led method The Tackle University Create Institute framework has made great strides in importing human rights, eradicating poverty, integrating Democratic institutions, combating climate change, promoting sustainable development, and protecting vulnerable weapons conflicts. I've done it. Thanks to multilateralism, unit nations often do not reach the traditional diplomacy of the region. Over time, the Pandem Expo remains weak and the unit nation continues to see Cooper antidote conflicts. The perspective, unfortunately, would like to emphasize the execution of the working organs, especially the Secretary-General, in the current context of the context fragment sharing the Mani commonality scenario.",1,test
2,Climate change effects Other types of violence afflict people. Afghanistan has the 17th worst impact on the nation's world.,1,test
2,"Stubborn pandemic reminds the destiny attached to a safe everyone. The epidemic has largely limited our homes. As a result, economic activities become a major obstacle to health systems. Bangladesh GDP growth rate of 8.2% in fiscal year 2018-2019. The Kuwait 19 epidemic hampered economic progress",1,test
2,Hope Agreement injects new dynamite relative Kosovo Serbia.,1,test
2,"firmli believes that mutual cooperation, harmon posit mutual respect, global responses face the modern plague found.",1,test
2,"climate change, establish par agreement import global consensus action climate change. must lose sight of the planet's goal for future generations. covid-19 show inseparable connection good-b health a planet environment envelop us. irrefutable respect for biodiverse wildlife is essential to human health. countri therefore aligns recovery efforts with long-term climate goals.",1,test
2,"Continuing Competitive Problem The world is facing climate change, the ill-fated planet Coronavirio must remember that the act of collecting addresses is always ours. An old African proverb says, 'If we go fast, we will go fast. I wish we could go away together. ' When we act we need to collect the address so everyone in us is ruthless! Getting together goes a long way.",1,test
0,"Responsive determinants fast world recovers, abil form sustainable achievement develop goal managing global challenges.",1,test
1,"The spread of coronavirus has led to disruption to the country's economy, including disruption of investment activities, inflow of foreign direct investment, domestic foreign trade, tourism services, especially the transport sector.",1,test
0,"democracy, and we offer dignity such as human rights, the rule of law and gender equality.",1,test
0,reason problem exist region today unilateral step greek greek-cypriot since 2003 maximalist demands.,1,test
0,"Decades to come, near-link digital lottery access to high-spec communication. Secretary-General’s roadmap Digit Cooper compels visuals, creating work broadband shirt innovations.",1,test
2,"As already stated, group Serbia within larger countries, nor redistribute regional populations. But, judge culture contributed science, countries in developed countries.",1,test
1,"“Furthermore, we welcome the launch of Coalit Sahel, the primary agreement between the G-5 Sahel Country Partner, a resource pool effort to combat terrorism.",1,test
2,"Joint acceptance of multilateral diplomacy supports the progress of three countries with major pillars, namely sustainable development, peace that secures human rights, interdependence and mutual reinforcement, and monitoring of respect for states defined in the UN Charter.",1,test
0,"the next step is to withdraw illegal territories of occupied weapons in a military format, re-control of the state border, and, finally, restoration of the integral Ukrainian territory within internal recognition borders.",1,test
2,"Rare Unit Nation Multiletter Test Test Year An '75th Anniversary, Year World Grapple Covid-19 Pandemic.",1,test
1,"slowdown in the economy of the private sector private sector causes unprecedented prompt unemployment active unemployment benefit program in the program self-help program, also social security programs, including distribution program of the nation’s food, the country’s largest history of feed program.",1,test
1,"Covid-19 has become a time of definite crisis. Global death toll rises, global economy, trade, travel disruptions disrupted. Lakhs of jobs, hundred thousand lost their lives.",1,test
0,"The state members, the demonstration promise, the compura compass made a firm commitment to start peace talks successfully. will not be enough. support afghanistan, there must be a regional terrorism problem reporting a global event, a threat, is.",1,test
1,"iron countri reprise today offer advice small island develop state increases resilience, make decisions area significantly undermine efforts. secret biggest contribution climate crisis carries consistently proportional, consequent incentive reduces greenhouse gas emissions.",1,test
2,"Required Countries Defend Peak Active Government Unit State Understand That, Amidst the Pandemic, An Understanding Upsurge Crime Prosecution, Blockade Noble Countries Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Syria, Iran Explain Brotherly Country World. Reason should demand unilateral coercive measures, impose sanctions, allow people to exercise rights, develop peace. Unit State Governance should drop the old practice, we should maintain subordinate order world, this, policy independent sovereignty. Unit State - Must Say - Courts History, BCom Serio Threat Peak World.",1,test
0,Tonga's continuous connection to the ocean and climate is a serious ongoing concern about the devastating effects of Chang's climate on the marine environment.,1,test
0,"young people continue - 60% of the 24-year-old population - immense natural resources stifle potential economic and social transformation. Therefore, the time has come seriously, look at the light of Africa.",1,test
1,We need to quickly implement an understanding of what reform means and start a restructuring security council.,1,test
1,critical point today's agenda. environmentally friendly protect climate change continue to focus joint efforts.,1,test
2,"unlimited support fraternity kingdom of saudi arabia, has made great progress in implementing the riad agreement, the goal of establishing stability possible address us unfortunately the event happened providing capital, aden, august 2019 made the maximum facilitation of the implementation of the agreement i believe we must unite efforts to restore development, favorable condition. Reuters Trust Brotherhood Kingdom of Saudi Arabia continued to implement the agreement.",1,test
1,"Vulnerable groups, especially young people, need special attention. As a result of the economy effect, Pandem Reed increases youth unemployment and quickly escapes the country's origins.",1,test
1,"Actions, including Build Capac Islet, will develop state-of-the-art recobb external shock pandems like covid-19, form disasters and impact climate change.",1,test
1,"Hence the formally unjust politics diplomacy aggressively condemns the foreign governments of the Burundi people, the well-known effort Regim Chang 2015 unconstitutional media. Power diplomacy should pave the way for mutually beneficial cooperation.",1,test
0,"the covid-19 pandemic also takes on human rights, deepening pre-existing unequal vulnerabilities. must provide a consistent comprehensive approach to basic human rights economic recovery efforts.",1,test
0,"multilater system promotes interest of small states. great nation also benefits act multilater institute gains political legitimacy. benefit peacefully, stabl prosperous global environment. multilater institute provid avenu countri pool idea cooperate deal common challenge to humanity including covid-19 now also essential for sharing interests.",1,test
1,The international community must move forward with fair rights and end the massacre of weapons.,1,test
0,"well awar fact secur issu well problem discuss jubilee un gener assembl call consolidate effort basi unit worth us, share learning history memory, spiritual alliance guid anti-hitl coalit participants find different opportunities ideologues prefer prefer victore peacing nation nation.",1,test
1,"wetlands, a major mani region in Europe, California, are facing challenges. larg heat will result in a large area temperatur coupl accumul decay organ matter.",1,test
2,"current chairman sadc organ policy, defense of safe cooperation, botswana commitment to ensure close attention given imper combat terror ensure threat order improve peace stabilization sadc region.",1,test
2,Extraordinary efforts need to contrast health emerging global economy contracts result structure unprecedented challenge country. to succeed in restoring the level of health wealth practitioner solidarity tremend efforts people,1,test
2,"the pandemic is coming, shows a global level weak health structure responds to the problem a high degree of severity.",1,test
0,"escalation juli, call intern communli mostli respect ceasefire, dialogue content. Turkey, however, many neighboring regions destabilizing the police power project, including the eastern Mediterranean, North Africa and the Middle East, backup efforts fuel tensions in the South Caucasus, well. Azerbaijan's unilateral support expands military presence there, Turkey undermines region peace stability efforts, good effort of osc minsk group co-chairs end. turkey directly threatens armenia put displayed aggression military postur way provocation joint military exercise azerbaijan close vicin armenia nagorno karabakh. turkey builds police region kinship tradition, exploitation of conflicts, justification of the crime of hostile Armenian genocide. turkey poses definite threat to armenia region. context, armenia continuously activates engagement region internal efforts maintain peaceful dialogue cooperation.",1,test
2,Arbitrary engag contrie like barbados must be stopped. done without the interference of knowledge. Contary's Law of Natural Justice. The combined factor pushes the condition back past the colon.,1,test
0,"social distances, mask mask use sanit measures, fever virus opportune walk among us.",1,test
2,The best way to address multilateralism from the effects of the current global threat. less multi-lateral copper would magnify the problems societies face.,1,test
0,"covid-19 pandemic complicated the governance of the transitional situation, the legacy of the weak sectors of the devastated economic service, the special health sector, neglected for decades.",1,test
0,"“The perfect illustration of the revised version year, required, the scope of the global upheavals causing the covid-19 pandemic, the unfortunate ongoing outrage. The invisible enemy causing massive human damage, and also deeply impacting social and economic life, puts the global nation’s response capacity to the test.",1,test
0,"Thank you for governing unit states, help us transform the public system 31 intensive care units into 1,000 multi-functional units, send us 600 ventilators, the world of supplis is short.",1,test
0,"In the end, at the initiative of the political process, the united nations, as well as the Syrians led by the Syrians, succeeded.",1,test
2,"2020 marks the ""year of delivery"" of sustained energy in the development realm reach 50 percent renew energy penetration, the project delay caused a global pandemic, the sudden cessation of market supply chains, led to a Major disruption to Tonga ndc target.",1,test
0,Use the Tenor Promote Internal Peak Secure Advocate Peak Settlement Disappear Inclusion dialog.,1,test
2,Furley believes the collective must execute the contract expeditiously to achieve the commit.,1,test
0,"Finally, countries will not be allowed to receive Covid-19 vaccines in a timely and fair manner, which means competitive work. access to the world of vulnerable countries. A medical break is a prayer, an effort must be made to have a strong impact on crises.",1,test
1,"Conclusion, would like to emphasize one more point: continuous unrest in different parts of the world, violence of conflict, environmental disaster, modern danger, global problem, poverty poverty.",1,test
2,"Of course, Africa still faces security challenges and hinders sustainable development efforts.",1,test
2,"a job offered by seychel worker made covid-19 redund, for example, planting one hundred thousand trees on islands. measure natural environmental costs. Restor Planetari Health Balance Human Ecolog Bienestar.",1,test
2,"Therefore, stepping up podium calls, Cooper step up the rallying mechanism that can collectively face the challenge of spreading the Covid-19 pandemic. must endeavor to achieve the theme of the meeting: ""The future wants, the united nation needs: Confirm, collect your commitments Multi-later - confront the Covid-19 effect with multi-later actions"".",1,test
2,adopt a similar climate action approach sustaining growing climate ambitions pandemic context preventing recovery of greenhouse gas emissions after covid.,1,test
0,"Talks, Afghan people clarify urgent priorities: ceasefire. Urgent end violence will bring us greater progress than anything else.",1,test
2,See the need to increase collective efforts to prevent the spread of diseases today.,1,test
0,“We call for the Intercom Greater Sustain Support Multin Joint Task Fork Lake Chad Basin G-5 Sahel Joint Fork as Country Region Combat Boko Haram Jihadi Group Sahel.,1,test
1,"verified number of children who still care about education, one of the priorities, who still attack. Particularli Worri Impact Covid-19 Group of vulnerable children Arm conflicts.",1,test
1,This message Red Power Anti Dot Rice Internal Violence Extreme reduces taste security.,1,test
1,"pandemic highlights imports resilient nation health system strong domestic health financing. The African Union champions agenda among member states, with an emphasis on spending more, spending better. Target Africa Leverage Resources Affects Global Health Partnership, Global Fund GAV.",1,test
0,"Therefore, seize the opportunity to reaffirm support renew multilateral cooperation name of the people serve, multilateralism, solidarity, combat effect poverti effect maintain peaceful internal security, indispens condit inclusively sustain development.",1,test
0,"pandem shed 'new light of humanity' needs to strengthen the multilateral system, the basic ideal incorporates un charter internal law.",1,test
0,"The meeting is a co-ordination with the unitary states to create the 70th anniversary. The Way of Exploring the Work of an Appropriate Review Organization The Effectiveness of the Emergence of Members The Flexible Order joins the people of the world in the pursuit of world peace, security, the development of democracy, the Charter Unit of the Ambodi Principal Proposition Charter.",1,test
2,"Sierra Leone Reiter is committed to multiple later efforts towards the full manifestation of Elimin Coronus Foam and supports the adoption of 10-year plan actions. The True Basic Principles Unit remains the purpose of national conformity and will be the history of the chapter Colonus, which abandons its absolute need within the period 2021 to 2030.",1,test
1,"also express their concern about the conflict zone vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic, the area least prepared in the face of danger.",1,test
0,"Militari grows considerably in size. spent $ 2.5 trillion on the military over the past 4 years. Makes militari all over the world, it's even close by.",1,test
0,"Armenia, the invasion of Azerbaijan region in July, proves the biggest obstacle to the recent stability of the South Caucasus.",1,test
1,call suppli medic equip the drug vaccine develop effort made issu competition.,1,test
2,"COVID-19 also sheds new light, Global Challenges Conflicts Include Escal Threat Arm Race Terror Continue Human Right Abs Climate Change Displac People Skorge Non-Communic Diseases, Technology Revolt Redefins Disrupt Future Work. Worldwide see consequences Pandemic deepens sectarian divisions, escalates geopolitical tensions, threatens peace in Chang's trade relations.",1,test
1,"combat climat chang continu one prioriti andorra, countri special awar natur environment. year means year rise program plan new location understanding, new ratif line what reduc greenhous to smoke, inside covered climat chang to cop26 held unit kingdom. Andorra has unquestionably endorsed the 2015 agreement, handing over the energi transit fight against climate change outlining the grant agreement. in fact, one of the first ways to reduce plans is to reduce the work experience so that it will sustain a wide range of infrastructure preservation around the world. the reason, the effort to fight climate change.",1,test
1,"Pacific Sid, Future Already Uncertain Agreement World Sustainable Current Trajectory Emissions Causes 3 Degrees Global Warming. The island will become a threat to existence. Pandemic Temporary Lockdown Saver Cyclone Introduces Continuous Stampede, Sea Level Rise, Sea Level Rise, Sea Yield Acidification. Border closure observed, climate change knows respect limits.",1,test
2,"It strongly condemns foreign governments of the Burundi people for unjust political diplomatic aggression, known attempts by Regime Chang 2015 unconstitutional means. Power diplomacy should provide mutual benefit, respect, cooperation.",1,test
2,The renew commit expects Democratic functional rule legislation related to the key benchmarks of deliver concret results and reflects a cross-party political consensus serve overall stable country.,1,test
0,"appreciate the support provided to the national unity counterterrorism partners, strengthen botswana's capacity 'newli ordering the counterterrorism analysis fusion agency allows us to mitigate the threat exposure.",1,test
0,"however, the inevitable pandemic hampered development aspirations. the resource diversion war pandemic turned efforts to provide housing, health care, clean water for educating people.",1,test
1,"Call Intern Commune-Espacey Secure Council - Accept Legal Responsibilities Israel Lift Siege Gaza Strip, Peak Process Back Track Credible Negoti Base Intern Resolution Forces, Address Final Statue Issues, End Capture Within Specified Time Limit Independent Palestinian State Within 1967 Borders Founded, the former Jerusalem capital, annexed the end Isra Arab territories.",1,test
1,"terror remains a prominent challenge facing the world poses a real threat to internal security of peace, impede the development of peoples. state qatar spare effort activ participle internal region effort address phenomenon tackl root, species support educ million children, young women create opportune opportune young men.",1,test
1,Year 2020 Remember Massively Groundswel Push Back Frontier Racism Umbrella # blacklivesmatt movement.,1,test
2,"Coronaviru pandem definitely marking the global year, brought us a challenge even we could imagine. Taking, already, hundreds of thousands of lives, the pandemic has sowed ordeal throughout the world aggriev a number of families, who sympathize with their pain.",1,test
2,"urg intern commun continued to seek a new multilaterial approach to facilitate debt restructuring order, ensure greater access to public policies, address the pandemic, sustain inclusive growth.",1,test
1,"""Concern about climate change, the Chadian-Sahel issue, the existing damage, the existing threat, the sector of strong influence makes the economy fundamental - it remains committed to implementing the first climate change agreement.",1,test
1,"despite the willingness of the government to undertake to adhere to the political agreement, to massively violate international humanitarian law. Group continues to arm illegal means, thereby undermining the nation's peace process, guaranteeing social cohesion.",1,test
2,"The coast, for example, was ravaged by violent terrorism, the death toll, the looting of infrastructure, and thus the fear of the environment. Instability, poverty, deprivation, border illiteracy, and so on.",1,test
1,The combined efforts of the coordinator of the nearest specialty - medical science - are forced to quickly overcome the pandemic around the world.,1,test
0,"The development of the region, the approval of the organization in the agenda of 2030 2015, the development of very ambitious tools, guarantee the welfare of the people. Agenda 2030, Millennium Development Goals Development goals, three-dimensional sustainable development - economic, social - reciprocal approach. The organ also promotes human rights. International human rights standards are thriving in this area, especially for women children.",1,test
0,"Also, the implementation of cooperation, the use of multidimensional approaches that determine the criteria for determining per capita income. 60% of the poor live in middle-income countries. Service countries, solariums understand the real progress made by each of the participants, consistently achieve development goals.",1,test
1,"Pandem illuminates new light humanity ’multileter system, base principal ideal enshrine un charter intern law needs to be strengthened.",1,test
1,"State society, demonstrate commitment, compass courageously make tough decisions, begin taliban peace talks straight away. won't be enough. To get afghanistan, root terror problem blight region must address global phenomenon, threat, is.",1,test
2,"The United Kingdom also insists that the existing military islands are too unjustifiable, creating international peace in the region.",1,test
2,Covid-19 Initially Healthcare Crisis gradually turns the global socio-economic financial crisis right. The current situation of state affairs certainly requires active coordination actions.,1,test
0,"The consequences of a large-scale current pandemic catastrophe - the loss of life can affect health - the focus should be on decisive people, especially the risk of vulnerability that affects the outcome of the pandemic to health, a better life.",1,test
1,"Percentage of Tajikistan's soil covers the mountains, wasting thousands of millions of dollars on water wastage.",1,test
2,"Take into account the Secretary-General of the Initiative, the state level response to the national plan approved by Turkmenistan to prevent Acute Infections Disease. Plan Oper Social Economic Major Turkmenistan Countercrat Coronavirus Pandem has also been adopted.",1,test
1,Current Political Crisimali-related Insurance Sahel's urgent and clear support to address the serious concerns Continuing Efforts Initiative Economy Communi of West African States Brings Ecowa.,1,test
0,"Working through the exchange of evidence, joint efforts, between specialized scientific institutes, requires urgent action to prevent the disease.",1,test
1,"terrorist extremist body finding fertile ground sprouts spread countri sectarian divisions weak collapse state institutions. I intend to win the fight against terrorism, I must give up the face, sponsors, sponsors, terrorist sectarianism, we must stand firm, count, propagate transnational extremist ideologies, religions, political slogan, hiding extremist, chaotic, destroyed nature.",1,test
2,"need to agree revitalis gener assembl make a real attempt at reform secur council. internal governance, never before, needs to be representative, inclusive, open. need to take into account a broad spectrum view recognizing the wealthy divers of the global community. The ability of the UN Secretary General to meet the current challenge will also depend on the financial policies of member states. game essential continue support.",1,test
1,further propose the adoption of a special decisive unit nation general assembly improve the role parliament achieve maintenance development goal achieve human rights.,1,test
2,"Today, the world is facing a huge challenge of cowardly-19 pandemic health, humanitarian, economic pressures. President G20, the last meeting of the leaders of the Kingdom’s internal coordination efforts, coordinated international efforts in March to prevent the pandemic from having a humanitarian economic impact. The summit, the Kingdom proclamation pledged ډالرو 500 million in aid efforts to fight the plague, bolstered the prepared response. The continuity of the monarchy enhances the global response efforts to counter the pandemic address reactions.",1,test
2,"pandem threat intern peaceful security. sweden eu strong support implements secretary general's global ceasefire call. insecure council huge responsibility. succeed mandate task maintain trainee peaceful security, reform impact must address current future challenges.",1,test
1,"The pandemic is strengthening divisions around the world, trying to weaken democracy. however, the period of dissemination of false information spreads a potential vector of extremism.",1,test
0,"Context, Alas Note the insurgent regime hastened to remove the barrier to the delivery of humanitarian aid needed to conflict zones. Within the framework, the Part Nation Plan Improve humanitarian action ensures that people's needs are met, state adoption projects find sustainable solutions, improve live conditions displaced persons, agreement provisions internal means laws govern humanitarian action",1,test
1,"and speaks of a 70,000-megawatt, 220,000-megawatt solar power plant, which will be the world's largest green power plant.",1,test
0,"The logically neutral political Turkmenistan intends to submit a resolution that ""Role Unit National and Regional Centers Prevent Diplomatic Central Asia.""",1,test
1,"sao tome & princip prepar graduat category medium-incom countri December 2024, a fact proud, reflects the recognized efforts countri undertaken progress reached the key area of ​​sustainable development.",1,test
2,"country, highli depend on tourism, closur borders, cessat cruis tourism aviation limit, devastating effect overnight economies, resulting in serious loss of income, also sudden significant job losses.",1,test
2,"An almost ever digital technology hub that responds to pre-order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. Develop techniques for using numbers, including artificial intelligence, and basic ethical principles, which must be human-centered. Promote the protection of human rights, democracy, and good governance, the rule of law should provide offline account. The policy of the universe must adhere to digital security. UN galvan digit Cooper The global level mobile operator contributes to unlocking, securing access to the digital infrastructure for all.",1,test
0,covid-19 initi appears to be a healthcare crisis gradual turning point justified global socio-economic financial crisis. State Affairs The current situation certainly requires active coordination actions.,1,test
2,"second, bifurc damaged a global pool of known opportunities to share new research opportunities. developed science science abl produc test kit quickli pandem earli phase. The Prime Minister said that the global immunization conference last June, needed more vaccines. there is a need for a highly effective Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer worldwide",1,test
2,"samoa ’long-term vision improv qualiti life mirror un 2030 program, critical roadmap observes three pillars un. reached SDG brought us closer to the world predicting founder organis 75 years ago, the future I want to join.",1,test
1,A single nation remains the best hope if there is a political need to prevent the existing threat from a small state family.,1,test
2,"Bold drastic measures taken within internal law generally avoid double standards policy, yet another import factor tackles the challenges.",1,test
1,"Rare Unit National Multi-Rator Test Test Year un’75th Anniversary, Year World Grapple covid-19 Pandemic.",1,test
1,"a strong urban development, a multi-sectoral business model supports global recovery. The system allows marketing ways to better serve each other. Millions live in poverty. after covid-19, look at the way support system improves performance in the future. there is also a need to rebuild a reliable transportation network that will make it easier to resume human mobility.",1,test
1,"A session therefore takes place in the most unusual context of a world of turmoil. The outcome of the human tragedy set a multilateral test that urged us to act decisively to stem the scourge. Welcome to the meeting topic selection session, ""Future Need, Unity Nation Needs: Reasserting Collecting Multilateral Commitment - Addressing the Impact of Covid-19 Multilateral Impact"". Mani ways, the theme of the slogan above the environment concern, compels us to a specific unity solidarity. covid-19 pandem requires a lot of our sacrifice, success, stop bleeding, depends on the desire of unity of effort to fight the epidemic, and prevent the population from falling back from abject poverty. Unfortunate reality covid-19 pandem slow efforts to meet tough sustainable development goals, including region health, hunger and decent work. Therefore, indoor communities must adopt a coherent, global approach to appropriate pandemic response. Regarding, we commend the Secretary-General who initiates the pandemic, launches the nation's system of the global response unit, and responds to the pandemic's directives.",1,test
2,"Azerbaijan took the time necessari to prevent the virus from spreading. Azerbaijan 'Millennium Achieve Goal Develop Progress Towards Achieve Goal Get Sustainable Develop enable us to have an impact on the pandemic. healthcar infrastructure azerbaijan is developing renov significantly, almost 700 hospitals have been completely renovated in the last 17 years.",1,test
1,the rare opportunity builds a better society - resistant to society. jointly addressing common opportunities challenges:,1,test
2,"invest enormous efforts to help survive the economy, first to thank discipline and manage public finances. despite the effects of the crisis, serbia excels in the economy of the first two quarters of the year, a good reason why the end of the year remains among the stable economies in europe.",1,test
1,"Thank you, manage the US staff, help us transform the public system 31 intensive care unit one 1000 multifunctional units, send us 600 respirators, short delivery time.",1,test
2,"Covid-19 disease exacerbates the pandemic of poverty, it has also shown us that the interconnected world is intertwined, we must respond together, a challenge we face today.",1,test
0,"Today’s combat pandemic is multi-faceted joint action, just a word of action, creating an equal world, well-equipped with equipment to promote true sustainability to all.",1,test
0,"Similarly, Country Call Stop Foreign Interference Syrian Affair Warne Syria Implek Syria 'Unity Arab Security. Also repeat the political process End the Syrian crisis Protect the safe people.",1,test
0,Call suppli medic Equip vaccine drug development Exporter effort.,1,test
0,"pandem internal threat peac security. sweden strongly supports the implementation of the secretary general's call for a global ceasefire. a huge responsibility of the board. succeed mandate task maintain the security of internal peace, must reform effect meet the current future challenges.",1,test
0,"Dwell on the unresolved Palestinian cause, Israel's continued settlement-building motive without dissuading poses the biggest question mark for internal community institutions.",1,test
2,"tragic historical dictatorships of the region, oppress military conflicts. despite the difficulties of the Legaci region, significant progress has been made over the last two decades, the major reform processes of the thank-you cycle have triggered the processes of enlargement of the european union of nato.",1,test
2,"The Kovid-19 bet is that along with the human population, the food supply chain is upside down, the paralysis economy is the Erode Consum purchasing power.",1,test
2,"so timor-lest believ pari agreement climat chang support development goal embodi essenti mean issu roads reconstruct countries. develop family farming, ration plan use natural resources, fight pollution intelligent policy protect environment, involve citizens crucial issue should possibly respect life planet.",1,test
1,"previous start of covid-19, young people already three times as unemployed compared to their adult counterparts. The pandemic pushes the world economy into a deeper crisis, young people generate the risk of disproportion and are the most affected by the lack of protection from mass unemployment.",1,test
1,"Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea Sevastopol aggressively violates the law of Eastern Ukraine Serio Intern, challenging the cause of global security human suffering. The European Union clearly needs to implement the Minsk agreements. Sweden condemns European Union anti-Russian leader Alexei Navalny's most likely word poisoning. The Russian government should conduct a fully transparent investigation into the assassination attempt. The answer must be justice.",1,test
1,2019 is a difficult year for Albania. Two energy earthquakes have killed at least 50 people and caused billions of dollars in damage.,1,test
1,"context, wish note revolut govern rush remove obstacles impede delivery humanitarian aid needed conflict areas. within framework, share nation plan improvisation humanitarian action provide need popul met state adopt project find support solution improvise live condition displac persons, agreement provided internal instrument law govern humanitarian work",1,test
1,"Expenditure between exorbitant resources, such as spending 8% of GDP, reducing the public health crisis",1,test
2,"Development, achieving aceler action lasts ten years. Sustainable development goals SDG 2030. However, a major factor in the Covid-19 epidemic is the delayed achievement. Therefore, should more hard work be done, Cooper should closely develop the Path People Center. Participatory participation on technological development should also be given priority.",1,test
1,"Negotiations, Afghan people make clear immediate priority: ceasefire. Immediate termination violation, if anything, gives us chunk progress.",1,test
1,"truth, extreme level uncertainty makes the future difficult to predict, the answer to the question must be simple.",1,test
0,"Multilateral diplomatic diplomacy, Sweden-15 non-nuclear-weapon states-Stockholm continues nuclear disarmament, contributes to the success of the conference.",1,test
2,"Ensuring the stability of the African continent, especially the regions, political members, an active member of the African Union, a large lake area, the Sahara Sahara. I would like to express my gratitude for the great role played by the African Union in the coronavirus pandemic.",1,test
1,"Revitalis says the present set-up is the lesson, despite previous outbreaks of the virus, the failed response to substantial Covid-19 results in disastrous.",1,test
0,"i need to make progress in mani fields. alreadi know you want to go, always bring a complicated part. wants recognition carri carri secretary secretary reform reform develop system, state contribution made resolut propos improvement. however, if you do not waste time, must build knowledge about the efficient work procedure expert must respond commit paper get a result security of peace, good development.",1,test
2,"unit nation play pivot outstand role overse polit transit process yemen, ongo sinc 2011. accord golf initi implement the mechanism, start the transit period. nation government form elected presidents became. nation conferred dialogue held particip strata Yemeni society. the new yemen constitutes a draft dialogue agreement. we assume that the subject referendum of Yemen adopts will allow elected officials to hold a new constitution line. however, the houthi coup disrupts the transit process led to the war yemen.",1,test
2,"covid-19 pandem continue to disturb destroy livelihoods also represent a considerable risk for internal peacekeeping. In particular, country conflicts, emerg conflict, experienced humanitarian crises, weak fragile economy, building peace, post-war state building could conversely be undermined.",1,test
1,"We want to remind all of us that coronavirus must gather fighting effort and bring about climate change. The call action of the Writer Government is to enforce emissions as a redoubt greenhouse. Furthermore, the call state set Ambity Nation Distribution Contributions. Science tells us to try to raise the global temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius.",1,test
1,"rage war sisterli yemen still demolish urban build yemen, clean up the necessary life, threaten the security region, affirm the way in which crisi resolved, negotiated yemeni agreement outside the nation's dialogue, gulf initiative, relev security council resolutions, in particular, resolution 2216 2015. affirm the firm positivity uniti yemen territorial integrity.",1,test
2,"kigali modifies the montreal protocol, approved four years ago, plays a major role in reducing hydrofluorocarbons consumed. half of the member states ratify the kigali amendment, force, call for ratification remaining possible soon.",1,test
1,"2019, a Brazilian criminal victim seepag Venezuelan oil sold without proper control, as a result of serious environmental damage large losses to the fishing industry.",1,test
1,"Anniversary 75th Anniversary Unit Country, a proper reflection is coming. Unit Nation was a common goal of high ideal build intern system collaboration. The system allows us to collect call accounts. Lastly evaluate the everione we entered.",1,test
2,"Finally, can fail to express appreciation Mr. Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, competent, impartial, courageous administration.",1,test
2,"welcome encouragement fact Albanian factor continuous support of European Euro-Atlantic courses throughout the region, strengthening ambit projects of co-ownership ownership of the time region.",1,test
2,"Occasion, Reiter Firm Stanc State Qatar Way Syrian Chrissy Polit Salt Base Geneva Communic 1, Implement Secure Council Resolution 2254 2015. The state of Qatar also continues to support the intern community, support efforts to ensure genuine judicial accountability criminal atrocities, war crimes crime human committed Syria.",1,test
2,"$2 billion socio-economic stimulus package provides economic stability, addresses employment challenges and provides macroeconomic fiscal stability. Social assistance measures include nearly 5 million people, half of the population.",1,test
2,"convincing today needs comprehensive, purposeful multi-lateral system copper problem danger of viral diseases, full launch of channels of scientific diplomacy. In this regard, Turkmenistan proposed to develop the establishment of appropriate instruments.",1,test
1,"Trinidad and Tobago joined the family nation in 1962, the year of independence. Small Island Government Development, Continuous Intervention Principle of Safe Collection Charter Main Charter Protecting Small Governments, Rule of Law, Absence of Military Power, Maintaining Sovereignty. Marking the 75th Anniversary of the Union of Nations, States, Small and Large Organizations, Pride of Success, Creating a Roadmap for Sustainable Global Development, Advancing International Law Promoting Gender Equality.",1,test
0,"Light High Mortal Level Destructive Effect Diseases, High Rate of Proliferation, Macken Multilator Must Continue to Use We Term Intern Solidarity, Order Intensity Combat Disease, Deter Loss Human Life, Relaunch Economic Development Process Countries.",1,test
0,"The United Nations has made the peace and security agenda noticeable, there is still much work to be done. COVID-19 is contributing to an increase in volatile instability. Inequality is growing, poverty, armed conflict and insecure terrorism still exist. People flee home in search of Safeti becomes a new normal. The threat of using a nuclear weapon remains.",1,test
1,"Time, investment strengthens the structure of the state Structural environment Behavior growth. That means continuing to fight corruption, improve public finance management systems, and strengthen provincial district-level governance.",1,test
2,"the situation continues without the proper response the internal community, obsessed countries, like mine, pay free of charge there are qualified debts new borrowing.",1,test
2,"russian illeg annex crimea sevastopol aggression eastern ukraine constitutes a serious violation of internal law, challenge global security causes human suffering. european union clear need to implement minsk agreements. sweden european union condemns strongest possible term poison russian opposition leader alexei navalny. Russian government must thoroughly and transparently investigate assassination attempts. response must bring justice.",1,test
2,"The COVID-19 pandemic complicates the situation transit government, inherited crippled economy, weakened, devastating service sector, especially the health sector, neglected decades.",1,test
0,"the current crisis must also empti solidarity demonstrationstr must word promise. It also shows us the import to avoid everi temptat exceeding natur limits. ""We have to limit the freedom of direct technology, put at the service of both types of progress, a healthier, human, social, integral one."" You also need to be careful to consider discussing the complex issu artifici intellig ai.",1,test
0,"Regarding the Libyan issue, he reiterated the welcome of the ceasefire agreement, activate the political process, the results of the Skhirat agreement, achieving a comprehensive political settlement, preserving Libyan sovereignty, the independence of regional integration, stopping bloodshed and preserving wealth. Beneficiaries understand the EMBOSS EMBOSS Military Diet 4C Libya.",1,test
2,"At the intern level, the Wellcome Ceasefire, Declare Simultan Presidium Presidency Council Government Accord Speaker House Representatives. Chad Writer Call Secure Council Shoulder Response End External Interference. Urg respects Libyan shareholders, resolves ceasefire, incorporates the Eggagg process and leads to true national reconciliation.",1,test
2,"therefore, take the opportunity to reaffirm support renew multilater cooper on behalf of the people to serve, multilateralism, solidarity, combat effect poverti maintain the security of internal peace, essential condit included supporting development.",1,test
2,"Romania's digital sector accounts for 6% of GDP. Consider the right opportunity to develop key sectors of the economy. The goal of changing Romania is to make countries less bureaucratic, flexible and attract foreign investment. Romania's regional innovation center is also strong.",1,test
1,"Keep in mind, the Secretary-General’s large-scale multilateral response to the Marshall Financial Resources calls for at least 10 percent of the world’s full support of GDP, to show us the way to be effective in addressing global challenges.",1,test
0,yemen's brotherly war still ravages yemen's yemen's cities 2216 2015. believe in the loyalty of the region of Yemen.,1,test
1,"“The global epidemic is currently taking its toll on covid-19, a multidisciplinary disease. developed countries, especially Africans, have a number of structural weaknesses, leading to epidemics as a result.",1,test
2,"Seems incredible to us because of the existing unit Nation Maintenance Peak Secure World, Ascent Foster Development.",1,test
1,"Cholera, experienced along with the vital element state capacity, are the effects of governance.",1,test
2,"An extremist terrorist group poses a huge challenge to the security of the nation, a serious danger to the countries stabil differs by region.",1,test
1,"Today, despite the current covid-19 pandemic, we are forced to restrict movement at the appropriate juncture, the possible communion between virtual people feel together thanks to the almost limitless possibility that new technology brought to the service of humanity.",1,test
1,"feel righteous, call for the end of the embargo, suffer, rule Cuba. Solidarity Cuban scientists, doctors in the health sector, fight against Covid-19, deserve respect and admiration.",1,test
1,"The process, deprived of human values, knows, has a great psychosocial impact. perhaps an important issue today. can affect the minds of today's children.",1,test
0,"pandem highlight import resilience health system strong domestic health funding. African Union Champion Agenda among member states, emphasis spend more, spend better. target africa leverage resources increase impact global health partnerships, global fund gavi.",1,test
0,"let Assur Zimbabw continue to implement the battl covid-19 pandemic measure. introduction of phase-outs, following the guidelines of the world's health authorities, management also providing zwl $ 18 billion approximately our $ 720 million economic stimulus package.",1,test
0,"First of all, let me rule the Solomon Islands, to offer my heartfelt condolences to the lost love of a coronavirus. Be patient with everything, in tragic times.",1,test
2,"overcoming short- and medium-term challenges. first, we have to beat Covid-19 together. we must not understand anyone, the nation is very small, safe together. need global cooperation, less. ensur medic suppli scientif cooperation continuous flow across borders, needs intensive exchange informing protocols of infection, hope resumption of ""normal"" life, including resumption of travel of trainees, safe.",1,test
0,"Pandem Escol Economy Chrissy Association also Neg Negative Sustainable Development, 2030 Goals.",1,test
0,"said, covid-19 damages botswana economy. prevents international travel and damaged world economy Two threats to tourism economi diamond. repeating covid-19 locks can also reduce economic performance.",1,test
0,"presidency of the osc of albania 2020 tangibl demontr firm commitment promoter intern peac secur dialogu multilater cooperation, time rais tension polarization.",1,test
2,"The persistence of violent extremism must constantly address the same imports, challenging human existence, reflecting development goals, fighting poverty, climate change, piracy, and so on.",1,test
1,"Pandemic reminds Stark that Fate Interconnect secures a safe all. The pandemic largely confined us to homes. As a result, economic activism is very at odds with health systems. Bangladesh achieves GDP growth rate of 8.2 percent in the financial year 2018-2019. The Covid 19 pandemic has hindered the progress of the economy.",1,test
1,"Epresi Support Provided Unit Nation Office Counter-Terror Partners, Enhance Capac Botswana' Newly Install Counter Terror Analysis Fusion Agency order helped us reduce exposure risk.",1,test
1,"July 12, 2020, Armenian perpetr anothprovoc along the state border. A 76-year-old military soldier in Azerbaijan killed a 76-year-old civilian after bombarding the Tovuz district of Azerbaijan, destroying civilian infrastructure.",1,test
1,"on behalf of governing the people, may take opportune to congratulate elected president 75 session unit nation gener assembly. wealth experience the good organ, lead an agenda, particularly times of unprecedented challenge, navigating the world global way pandem caus covid-19. let assur solomon island support cooper tenur office.",1,test
0,"terror remains a major challenge facing the world which constitutes a real threat to the security of internal peace, hampered the achievement of supporting the development of peoples. qatar state alternate effort activ particip internal region's effort to tackle the phenomenon rooting out, especially supporting the education of millions of children, young women creating timely jobs for young men.",1,test
1,"Let's conclude, Mr. The President, reiterated Sierra Leone's call to establish a resilient health car infrastructure, curtailing the service to protect people from the dangers of COVID-19. The apprentice-apprentice method re-establishes a trusted financial market that creates an environment that supports global trade, investment, and job creation. It must restore progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.",1,test
1,Suspicion of eliminating other actions may be to blame. The joint declaration is adopted by the Ministry of Environment.,1,test
0,"The Covid-19 border crossing affects the global economy. The peculiarity of Solomon Island is that you go through a difficult period, but recover the economic stimulus package. We thank the company for supporting the economic initiative.",1,test
0,"Consequently, South-South cooperation, excluding North-South relations, promotes the article to consolidate the business interests of the economy.",1,test
1,"The year's debate of the topic reminds us of the nations of the main unit of import from various sides. firmli believ joint actions, harmonious mutual respect, response found in the face of the global challenge pandemic you communicate covid-19.",1,test
1,"venezuela tradit host county refuge. however, the result is an unprovoked crime coerciv measur economist impos that governs a state of the people, perpetuating a system of immigrant citizenship, the cause of the economy.",1,test
1,"""Internally, welcome to the cease-le-fir libya, simultaneously declare president president council to govern accord nation president of the representatives of the chambers. Chad reiter call secur council shoulder respons end for external interference. Urge the libyan stakeholders to respect the ceasefire - Resolved fire to initiate the negotiation process included to lead a true national reconciliation.",1,test
0,"Conclusion, would like to emphasize one more point: continuous unrest in different parts of the world, violence of conflict, environmental disaster, modern danger, global problem, poverty poverty.",1,test
1,"during a pandemic, carefully provoke the misinformed misinformed pandemic. the spread of ""endemic"" health risks, increasing risk of conflict, violence, human violence, brutal mass atrocities. covid-19 crisi demonstr critically need free, reliable, reliable, factual, clear science-based information. countries, regional organizations, media workers from the UN system, social media platforms, there is no clear role responsive help helping people ""infodemic"" deal. countri attach great information to combat misinformation. cause, authority 2019, San Marino, high level of danger misinformation. reason, join the year interregional declaration ""endemic"" context support unit covid-19 nation communication response initiator ""verified"" campaign, announcing Secretary General April.",1,test
2,"also launch bank develop solomon island target provide financial service support target develop rural areas, especially small medium enterprises primarili engag commercial industries.",1,test
0,climate change effect anoth type violenc people suffer. Afghanistan affects the 17th worst country in the world.,1,test
0,"The appeals also demonstrated the high level of solidarity area of ​​the Kovid-19 pandemonium during the difficult period, the most accurate result building proactive relationship ర్ Serbia. Cooper Intensive Region Country Relat Repatriation Citizen Relat Issued Humanitarian Assistance Assistance, including General Supply Items.",1,test
2,"podium call intensive global effort confront a great challenge facing human area climate change, poverty, organ crime, spreading epidemics, challenge requiring strengthen the work of the bright future future cover can live stability, peace, security.",1,test
2,"must allow crisis to become an excuse to suppress human rights freedoms. must ensure that the limit must be proportionate, the time limit legally justified. principle must be universal.",1,test
1,"For the first time, world leaders from the United Nations General Assembly' 75-year history gather people together. Decis High Level Week Large Virtual Testament Commit Multilator Un.",1,test
1,"It seems to us an indisputable reason there is a unit nation maintain a peac safe world, essentially promoting development.",1,test
0,"carefully, a one-year multilateral fracture event can reduce global development aspirations. triumphant sign five years ago 2030 agenda 17 support develop goals. never wants to return collect commits double implements efforts. vanuatu alreadi context global goal nation aspirations, article vanuatu 2030 - people ’plan. year sought to ensure nationwide recover strategies respond immediately social, the economic environment need associate covd-19 cyclone harold, empow us build back better continuous advanc develop aspirations. you must keep moving forward and coming back earlier. An increasingly frequent event of extreme weather disaster means recovery becomes normal again.",1,test
2,"“The whole world is currently experiencing a devastating covid-19 pandemic. developing countries, especially African, owe multiple structural weaknesses, exposure and consequent scourge.",1,test
2,"coronaviru pandem signific neg impact cours cours direct global economies seriously undermine the global community's effort to achieve sustain developing goals. context, look forward to intensified cooper aim to restore economic trade relations. today the necessary platform of creators puts global economies underpinning the growth trajectory. opinion, energy, transportation, industrial trade become key areas.",1,test
2,"Despite its intervention in Yemen's safe years, Yemen's strong position has been restored, and in the current climate the SPC's complete ceasefire will lead to permanent political isolation. Consider, the political process following the decision confirm the decision of Yemen. The country praised the excellent effort made by the Brotherhood Kingdom Saudi Arabia. Reuters UAE Support Riyadh Agreement Call Unit Yemen Positive Order Reaches Stable Settlement.",1,test
2,The result of the unwavering commitment is to opt for a zero-civilization policy against terrorist extremist extremism. The nation’s efforts complement the Intercooper deterrent threat.,1,test
2,"favor resolv issu nuclear program of iran take into account domestic law, diplomatic dialogue.",1,test
2,"Thanks to the measures taken, the situation with COVID-19 in the country will remain under control. life and health of citizens, which will prevent the economic hardship associated with the pandemic.",1,test
2,"Burkina Faso Thanks Unsecured-Gener Global Call Solidarity, Launch March 31, 2020. Promote Call Enable Global Framework Establish Integrator Flexible Response, make the best use of order.",1,test
2,"governate commit issue because, for the first time in history, creat women ministers, gender diversity, a good cabinet of the nation, ensure a transversal gender policy.",1,test
0,"However, the success of Somalia's common effort means unscathed. Accord offici statistics, 3,000 Somalis infect viru around 100 tragic lost live results. mani diagnosis live pain suffer from covid-19 others remain vulnerable due to the weak infrastructure of the Somalia health system.",1,test
0,"make the nation of unity work with us all, call gather commits individual, communal, national, regional global levels. pandem also shows weak levels of rating development, jeopardizing the timely access of developing countries to manage financial debt restructuring, among others. reveal the need to re-extend the success of developing countries beyond the tradition of the nation's gross income, take into account the vulnerability, particularly the crisis they experience. the need of each country should take into account isolation, dealing with the multilateral context. Help Us Gather Commit Bottom - Multilateral Help Us Gather Future Progress You Want Nation Unity Needed.",1,test
2,"The spread of coronavirus has led to disruption to the country's economy, including disruption of investment activities, inflow of foreign direct investment, domestic foreign trade, tourism services, especially the transport sector.",1,test
2,deep concern neglect of internship law recently. overview of the current situation,1,test
1,"including reconsidered role Economic and financial institutions, such as Bretton-Woods, must respond quickly to the growth of the super-rich poor. economic model fostering subsidiarity, supporting local economic development investing in educational infrastructure benefiting local communities, building economic success also renewing a larger community. I would renew the appeal",1,test
0,"the world faces a prolonged period of turmoil. the multilater system confronts nationalism, xenophobia, rejects free trade, global economic integration, branches off technological supply chains. new threat. the fact covid-19 accelerates pre-existing trends. unilater protection ultim self-destructive action.",1,test
2,"""Chad's development plan, financial support for intensive fans in 2017, which is expected to result in the expectation of low-level resource debt. , Is currently preparing a second country development plan.",1,test
0,“With a view to import further work strengthen coherent goal actively init support g-5 Sahel order react effect challenge product tangible result soil concept safe development.,1,test
0,Climate change measures that take a similar approach will maintain an increase in climate change ambit context pandems and prevent post-pandem rebound green house emissions.,1,test
1,"introduce a series of unparalleled measures to save living people, reduce the destruction of the economy, minimize unemployment. care for inclus approach factor specific need differences interest Seychelles, consult private sector, trade unions, civil society organizations interreligious organizations required.",1,test
0,Decade Action SDGS should work together to protect planetary ecosystems. need support ration use planetary resource pursuit economic development full respect biodiversity. Biodivers Summit Offers Unique Opportunity Show Ambit Accelerator Action Biodivers Sustainable Development.,1,test
0,"thus, for fear of not believing agreement bet climate change support develop objective embody essential means stake road rebuild countries. develop family farming, rationing plan use natural resources, fight against pollution intellig polici protect the environment, engage the citizen crucial stake must respect the possible life planet.",1,test
2,"""Highli relev thematic session, 'the future wants, unity nation needs: reaffirm collect multilater commitment - confront covid-19 effect multilateral action', full underline Import must attach intern cooper multilater irreplac means addressing major common challenging pandemics, climate change , terrorism, poverti inequality, name a few.",1,test
2,"April 2016, Armenia launches a large-scale military attack on Azerbaijan. Result attack, 6 Azerbaijani civilians including one child killed, 26 civilians injured.",1,test
0,"Unit Empire Continues Attitude Unraveling Regional Conflict Aggressive Conflict Alarm Illegal Unilateral Exploitation Uses New Renewed Natural Resource Area, Leads Counter General Assembly",1,test
0,"COVID-19 brought Solomon Islands closer partners. Made new friends, Latest ""Philippine Red Cross"", Fantast Work Test Look Student Manila. Great Excel Work Red Cross Continuing Citizen.",1,test
2,"shape shared future direct implementation fulfill promise to take unprecedented act cooperation coordinator level of action global village community, economic governance.",1,test
1,"It should be noted that, prior to covid-19, Beliz argues that the economy is declining due to the climate impact of the ongo prolonging the impact of drought on primary sector production, along with the ongoing challenge the cause of Sargassum in marine areas. on september 4, hurricane nana hit us, inflicting yet another hard blow on beleagu's agricultural sector.",1,test
1,"It should be noted that during the year belaru aktiv called for the resumption of a broad dialogue trainee security, aimed at overcomcom current conflicting relations between the states. the dialogue would allow the return of building the effect of the global multilateral order base.",1,test
0,ensur countri left behind reiter position african union economic sanction zimbabw sudan lift allowed the government to respond adequacy pandemic. also calls for an end to interest payments on Africa's external public debt.,1,test
1,"see partner participant nation level one intern key factor accelerator implement the 2030 agenda. middle-income country, belaru believ separate a Strategi promote sustain develop - line document similar group develop country - need to succeed achieve sustain develop objectives categories states.",1,test
1,"2020 will undoubtedly remember the dark weather, the unknown pandemic, whose devastating effect is always a live aspect demonstr - need demonstr - gather vulnerability.",1,test
2,"Sound action also requires order to address the emergencies of the climate environment. sea ​​level rise weather events of catastrophes, offers more climate change with a risk of ignorance. duti futur gener turn turn glasgow cop26 success attain goal pari pari agreement.",1,test
2,"Active member unit nations, strengthening contribution to sustain development goals. The experimental point requires a strong institution of modern times. Negotiations should resolve dialogue to persuade internal conflict. The instrument blooms essentially promotes mankind. Concerns Recent tensions maritime dispute South China Sea. Gauravli says the first country compulsory council mechanism, the Advocate Unit Nation Convent Law C, is used. Partial Party Involve Resolve Different Dialogue Negotiation Order Avu Peak Solution.",1,test
2,"Uniform Human Needs The function of a multilateral system requires respect for democratic sovereignty and co-consensuality, the refusal of bullion exclusion, and the imposition of economic sanctions.",1,test
0,Post-Pandemic World Excerb Saver Refuge Displaced Persons Facing Crisis Planetary Regions. Answer Promote the human rights migrants guarantee.,1,test
1,"Initially, let sincere congratulations preside over the 75th session of the United States General Assembly. Excellency, Assur Vanuatu 'commitment to support tenure, Everi Confid President Success Guid us collect pursuit future want, Ralli Spirit Cooper Essenti unity nation need.",1,test
2,"also discuss corpor turn into 70,000 megawatts of wind, 220,000 megawatts of solar energy for renewal, there becomes a center for renewable energy green industrial region.",1,test
2,"""With that in mind, Fitzgerald's emphasis is on the major disability pandemic. The African Development Bank noted that an additional 50 million people could be at risk of an African uprising in 2020. In addition, Africa's loss could be exacerbated."" The resulting pandemic could reach 2020 2020 billion.",1,test
0,"Decarbonising remains a central effort to fight against the impact of climate change, to help build resiliated societies of small, vulnerable economies. own need to afford energi energi efficiency, renew electrification. 2020 bet agreement commit updat ndc developing low-emission development strategies remain critical. the synerg covid19 recovery effort accelerates carbon transit and strengthens resilience.",1,test
2,"Turkmenistan's activities began to pose a threat to the need for measurement in the pandemic world. The effect protects the measured time, the US strategy to fight coronavirus infection, the regulatory, regulatory, legal, financial, economic, medical sanitary quarantine characteristics.",1,test
0,"The apartment we believe in allows us to withstand the complex challenges of the world. Indeed, the world of the health-related Kovid-19 pandemic has shown us the combined efforts of internationalists to help us reduce the global impact of nephria.",1,test
1,"convinced cooper unity nation region organ essenti instrument consolidate ensure developing world. There is always concern about the massive unresolved conflict in the Black Sea region, affecting the Stabil Cooper neighborhood. continuous promoter cooper unit nation region of various bodies, including the current president black sea economic cooperation.",1,test
0,"In our opinion, there is a reason.",1,test
0,"aggression Azerbaijan, Armenia is constantly confronted with a deep demographic, socio-economic crisis. regime chang happens to Armenia two years ago, the fascist ideological failed state remains unchanged.",1,test
1,five years ago climat chang par agreement was signed. implement the framework slow pace of the greenhouse effect give the economy time to adapt new technologies.,1,test
0,"Coursework should keep the epidemic at bay, and the rank of joint struggle should also document the challenge of the community of trainees.",1,test
2,"In fact, the pandemic has an unprecedented impact on human life. Addressing the global challenge requires recommending state influence, the central role of multilateral internal cooperation unit nations.",1,test
2,"development on the ground help develop the least developed countries, support countries that have a negative impact on climate change, qatar fulfill the pledge provide a contribution of $ 100 million support the least developed countries small island develop an agreement of State on Climate Change.",1,test
2,disrespect natur caus climat chang neg impact impact humanankand. destroys the biodiversity of the ecosystem binds new diseases illustration covid-19.,1,test
1,"Real Plan Build Strength Country, Health Social Protect System, Educational Model Country High Level Public Safety, Hist Historical Uniqueness, Culture Divers Privilege Natural Environment. However, the plan also recognizes, one expects, the aspect needs to sustain the reform base recognition - understood transverse sense - the main guideline line political action. Because, develop a roadmap that is affected by the effect of the moment moving from the present time. The line of action sustains development goals, the main catalyst that drives the organization promotes the Chung unit nations.",1,test
2,"without a doubt, last year proved that ukraine is really striving for peace. manage unblock dialogue, resume the meeting of leaders of the normandy format, make substantial progress, release detained persons. beginning on July 27, includes the place of the ceasefire, which, despite the attempt to disrupt it, still gives hope to maintain the ceasefire. badli needs to keep moving towards genuine peace.",1,test
1,"Twenty-five years ago, World Confer Women Beij Chart Transforming the Gender Equality Agenda, Continu guid us. empowering women made us safer and richer. true gender equality still reaches the country.",1,test
0,"The Crisis Beckham excuse should be allowed to suppress human rights freedoms. Make sure the limit should be proportional, the time limit legal sound. The principal should apply universally.",1,test
1,"however, the imf program will provide temporary relief, unless it delays payment, debt forgiveness, expenses reimbursement, formulation of interest rates, interest-bearing loans resulting in non-payment.",1,test
2,"prevent unwanted priority Armenian genocide. nation endure horrors, moral response human preservation memory victim genocid contribute effort internal community prevent recurring horrendous crimes.",1,test
1,"Celebrating its 75th anniversary does not mean that this is a large institution, the import of which will remain relevant to humanity. it is necessary to reconsider the context in accordance with the established context.",1,test
2,Internal interfer agreements prevent limited damages to the detrimental effect of anyone. alreadi Experienc past.,1,test
0,"Special thanks for the efforts of this group include the private sector, a special economic sector, the evolving environmental conditions, including the development needs of its members.",1,test
1,"See today the ruthless Escal militia, especially Governor Marib, al-Jauf al-Bayda, Houthi militia indiscrimin military campaign saver months. Residents attack area ballist missiles worry whether civilians survive Millions of displaced people fled area militia control. Terrorist militias repeatedly target the civilian civil infrastructure Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Clearly true intention demonstrates calmness.",1,test
1,"Start the effectiveness of freshwater scarcity due to climate change. Azerbaijan ratifi pari agreement, voluntary liability receives 35 percent greenhouse ga amis 2030 comparison base year 1990.",1,test
0,"A job Seychelles offer worker redefined Covid-19, for example, planting thousands of trees on islands. Messrs. Keep Cole protects the world's scientific natural environment costs. Restore Planetary Health Balance Human Ecological Wellness.",1,test
2,"a year ago generation, you mention urgent need to change the format, said failed, assembly would be irrelevant. then assemble format gener slightly changed, changed. caus histor pandemic, changed. Change result? Assembling becomes even irrelevant. Year becom irrelevant relevance even discussed.",1,test
2,"The success of the joint ceremony's work aims to prevent resolute conflicts, explore a peace way to address crises, and, first of all, use the effect of preventing diplomatic mediation.",1,test
1,"Also mind contribute peace stable region, context challenging state face concern insert region find oneself, land undertake process join asean, region block 600 million inhabitants.",1,test
2,"conversation, Afghans take an important priority quickly: ceasefire. violenc will stop fast, anything else, will give us chanc prosperity.",1,test
0,"""Concerned Climate Change, Chad - Sahelian County Subject Damage Impact Existence Threats, Strong Affected Areas Make Found Foundation Economy - Apply Climate Change.",1,test
0,"Remarkably, before Covid-19, Belize claimed that mitigating the effects of drought would increase the effects of drought in the early stages, along with the sustained challenge of sargasomes in marine space. On September 4, Hurricane Nana hit us and hit another part of the agricultural sector.",1,test
0,"Syria, Resolve Money-Making Political Solutions Line 2254 2015. Sweden's latest pledge of 96 96 million at the Crisis Response Brussels 4 conference.",1,test
0,"better to dismantle, real architecture place. US small island developing state above all, greatest threat globally - remarkable climate change Manag oceans. for this it must be absolutely global, i.e. impernecessari internal architecture space. Resources address complex challenges are becoming scarcer, weak points country ldc sid special face of a daunting future. Put simply, nations need fully functional, uniformly working nations. un-agenc need solid partnership member states, multilateral organizations. Knowing problems, finding ways to solve them, creating even bigger problems, continuing the trend, undermining multilateral internal cooperation.",1,test
2,apply the command to drink clean water. water conservation preserves biodiversity.,1,test
2,"The magnitude of the public health emergency requires unprecedented mobile resources. govern institutions, civil social organ invest great energy fight covid-19. however, the first heroic efforts respond to health professionals. therefore, I would like to take advantage of the generic protest work of national unity. Demonstration of the value of the profession, also shown immense human quality, because, unfortunately, viru often deprives us of contact with the person who accompanies us, a necessary moment of difficulty. Yet despite everything, men's and women's health services provide constant support to people living in adversity.",1,test
0,"Romania pay particularly attentive young people, especi distant education profession train affected. such a proposal for double scholarships for foreign nationals 2020-2021 academic year, especially in Africa. believe that they provide continuous training for young people, contribute to the principle of ""building better"".",1,test
0,"peac environment indispensable address the pandemic, must resume dialogue, peac disput resolved rule law order puppies suffer bring hope vulner populations.",1,test
1,"The prospect of achieving keep developing people hing heavili safeti secur. Global pandemic The unfortunate growing threat the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, piracy, trafficking in persons and cybercrime poses. Given the desire of a free society for the proliferation of unregulated small-arm light weapons, Trinidad and Tobago remains fully bound by the Arms Trade Treaty, which must address the problem of the illegal arms trade.",1,test
1,"can speak clearly, insufficient today. Necessary retail work save the sea of ​​aral concrete practical help support provide the people live there. thus, I firmly believe that, subject to the need of the Aral Sea, the system understands the approach of the relevant legal document in question, separate from the direct activities of the United Nations. In this regard, Turkmenistan has offered to initiate a special program for the Aral Sea basin.",1,test
0,"also stand fraternal peopl lebanon experience humanitarian catastrophe result blast port beirut, result result hegemon hegbollah, affiliate terrorist organ iran, decis make process lebanon forc arms. led disabl constitute the state institute lebanon. ordering a Lebanese fraternal peopl achieve aspiration security, stability, prosperity, terrorist organ must be disarmed.",1,test
0,"needs a break from the current weather conditions. now, along with eros multilateralism, seriou fire developing new weapon technology, lethal weapon system legislation changing natur warfare, removing human industry.",1,test
0,"Also a strong region of spirit partnership, the Department of Conditions Challenge finds itself in a region of concern, the country’s commitment process is included in ASEAN, the region is blocking 600 million inhabitants.",1,test
1,"Of course, sponsor financial terrorism, the current ruling regime of Turkey is supreme. The Turkish regime is a major sponsor of Syrian terrorism. Tens of thousands of foreign terrorists continue to form in Syria The Al-Nusra Front-linked terrorist group supports the Syrian people. carri 'turkification' for displac polici areaori occupied Syria. The Turkish occupation of Haskah denies dozens of townships, supplying water to the reputed city of Turkish Regime Delibe, harming civilians alive, punishing millions of civilians in the wake of the Kovid-19 epidemic. Legal terms, amount of war crime is a crime of humanity. By the way, the criminal behavior terrorist exhibition cuts off the water supply millions of civilians Damascus 2017. Then, as of today, self-styled human rights even defend the right to raise a finger.",1,test
2,"intensity crisi demonstr glow of socio-economic emptiness within countries. best definitions unique financial exposures human resources provide power, capacity meet challenges. pandem underlining individual weak force without collecting differences perform solidarity. reiter re-emphasize live villag global therefore, you need other. conclude that, without engaging in multilateralism engagement, never meet the ideal “delivery of action of the decade” agenda in 2030 - leave one behind.",1,test
0,covid-19 pandem quickli become a real global threat. far above. already learn the lesson: can not go back as usual.,1,test
0,"The Kovid-19 pandemic shows that the global crisis requires joint action and solar cooperation. As the Secretary-General noted, the commitment to ""gather quantum leaps"" must be demonstrated. multi-storey, as well as to improve the economy and society to a level of ""no one leaves"". To achieve this, it is necessary to continue the reform, to make the goal more effective and efficient. We need the unity of the nation!",1,test
2,Adopt a quantitative policy aimed at promoting gender equality that governs the kingdom of Esvatin. Women are the decision-makers in the region.,1,test
2,"Reiter Imports Facing Covid-19 Impact Multilateral Action, Want to Recognize Provide Efficient Financial Support Somali Feder Government Mitig Worst Covid-19 Economic Pressure Intern Financier Institute Money Multilator Institute Somalia Success Reach Decis Point Debt Relief Mani Key Intern Get creditors. Progress towards obtaining credit, cancel economic reforms, Somalia's economy remains 'prosperous people in the future, intertwined'. Relationships, the future Somalians want more and more partnerships to foster intern trade, increase foreign direct investment, key products, sector potential, feed the world, develop human capit Create Opportunity for all of us. Unit Nation Need Inclusive Global Multiletter Platform Propel Idea Aspire Chang Realize Also. The COVID-19 economy challenges us to uphold the developed goal, the world must improve, for the better, all together.",1,test
0,"it must first identify the driver's disturbance. five sources, afghanistan deal simultaneously. covid-19 pandem exposes vulnerabilities, point we, global community, we can afford them more. Afghan fortune contains the first wave pandem close government, business cooperation, minimum input and un agencies, pandem expos gap system must be addressed.",1,test
1,"Desir Peak Achievement Israel' refer to the full commit period Decis intern acknowledge the Arab Peak Initi based on the legitimasi Arab, Israel Tri-Circuv Act Palestinian cause exists. The arrange base term refers to achieving peace, even summoning peace. May intend to resolve the Palestinian cause, achieve comprehensive, final peace.",1,test
1,"Formal trust mutual cooperation, synchronous positives mutual respect, facing global response got the modern plague.",1,test
0,"compact requires a new design, improves the existence of the financial instrument guid sid economi current crisis, creates a response system maintains gains, strengthens the climate change resili achieved, maintains development.",1,test
0,"Accordingly, the Belarus Advocate Practical Initiative maintains inter-peak security in the order of fully realizing potency.",1,test
0,Internal interfer agreements prevent limited damages to the detrimental effect of anyone. alreadi Experienc past.,1,test
2,"covid-19 pandem come chang realiti humanity priorities, consequently human life. pandem has made evid inequ world aggravate them. unfortunately, the contingent measure pandem faces widens the social economic gap in countries. the entire internal community must provide global coordination that supports the nation’s need, helping creators condition stronger economic societies.",1,test
1,"persistent violent extremism must constantly receive harmful attention equal import challenge human existence, reflect support for goal development, poverty alleviation, climate change, maritime piracy, among others.",1,test
0,"Prior to the launch of Cove-19, young people were three times more likely to be unemployed than adult peers. The pandemic plunges the global economy into a deep crisis, with the risk of the younger generation running under the protection of disproportionate mass unemployment.",1,test
1,"well known, ancient culture rich spirit heritag region world importance.",1,test
2,We owe support to UN member state Abl Reviv Strengthening the global water agenda over the last few decades.,1,test
0,the pandemic gave us an urgent lesson: ignore drivers for longer.,1,test
1,"however, success will make us blind to the side still facing challenges. activ intern cooper intern solidar helps us overcome emotions effectively. and drive out forms of combat. The conflict has now taken on a new form, with a non-amorph state actor raising fears of religious extremism, including in the Sahel region of central Africa. Also, climate change, a devastating weather event recently seen, the challenge side migrat crisi will meet the positive support found in it.",1,test
2,Internet Commune Support Call Government Efforts The Economic Challenge Policy Plan Strengthens the Nation's Currency Vision Ensures Family Stability. Internet Community Houthi Manpol Allows Humanitarian Aid Blackmail Manages Loot Funds Significant Payments Salary. Continuing the nation’s underlying efforts.,1,test
0,"must suffer unceas fighting poverty. Ideology, overcrowding, causes of famine, land destruction, senseless segregation, armed conflict, populist exodus, outside the north-south continue to be killing people.",1,test
1,Striving for recovery predisposes us to meet future needs. Reviving economic activity increases environmental sustainability.,1,test
0,"Also at the Welcome Summit Biodiversity, will take place next week. Express Commit Promote Strategy Practical Sustainability Use Biolog Divers Develop Natural Resources, Mechanical Improve Manage Utilization.",1,test
0,"never human histori mani opportun abl want to do, honest creat want to create. Network enable us to instantly connect the best spirit anywhere in the world. network enable us to connect people's interests, aspir vision world. speak the perspective of the individual. Imagine humanity does.",1,test
0,"In addition, we need to work together to make available Essential Health Car Services, certain quality primal care, and sustainable development of the Key Achievement 2030 Agenda, especially Sustainable Development Goal 3.",1,test
2,"anoth action removing doubt may condemn committing climate change change area role play leader pro tempor secretariat ibero american summit two years motto ""innov supports development-facility 2030"". joint declaration adopted by the Ministry of Environment Conference on September 16 last year, a chairman of the summit allows us to set an environmental agenda among the Ibero-American conference of 22 member states.",1,test
2,"part, govern constantly empower the upliftment of poor poor programs poverti erad. software equipment enables beneficiaries to start a small enterprise on a small scale better survival. uplift program beneficiari poverti keep an unprepared generation, creation.",1,test
0,"Closely coordinating the profession, joint efforts, scientific paramedic around the world, the necessity of a pandemic, a quick victory.",1,test
0,australia supports whose efforts are developing a fair global framework for the vaccine therapist.,1,test
2,Today's agenda. Environmental protection remains the joint effort of Climate Chang Fuku.,1,test
1,"topic 75th gener assembl call us, the nations of the units of the member states, come together in the next wish frame. vanuatu, extremely difficult background of the year begins the next phase nation building, mark the months of independent graduation celebrates ldc peak. hope to share the experience of contributing to global learning navigate the current work of crisis along with pursuing sustained sustainable development. upper covid-19 extension, continued rapprochement of nations global recovery exist commitment of growth reorientation model a support of greener nature.",1,test
2,"let conclude reaffirm zimbabwe 'commitment to work for a better world. a better way to achieve mutual respect for the peaceful and stable world, the real multilater buttress is in great need of reforming respect for domestic law. re-engage the world in the ideal path that we aspire to.",1,test
2,"Sometimes countries' 75th anniversary units evaluate successful failures. Although it is a single state that solves global problems, it prevents multilateral arms conflicts and uses world arbitration. To do this, strengthen the structure of cooperation to strengthen the multi-layered system, respond to the global situation, new global challenges, expect a new generation. the desire of a united nation, the need for a united nation.",1,test
1,"let conclude reaffirm zimbabwe 'commitment to work for a better world. a better way to achieve mutual respect for the peaceful and stable world, the real multilater buttress is in great need of reforming respect for domestic law. re-engage the world in the ideal path that we aspire to.",1,test
0,"Venezuela, tell you, essential guarantee Parliamentary election Invitation World Join us, Live with Democracy, Note Noble Able Venezuelan People Choose to the Right, Choose New Legal Power, Sync Fundamental Tool Express Source Power Venezuela Intervened Intent Case for a Decision - Ever-Nation, Respect Thou Demand Respect.",1,test
0,"""Concerns of tension surround the great Rhine dam Ethiopia, Chad calls fraternal ruled Egypt, Ethiopia Sudan continuous priority dialogue order reaches a negotiated solution aegi African Union.",1,test
1,The reason the problem exists in the region today is Greek Cyprus unilaterally since the 2003 Maximalist demands.,1,test
0,"the one-year conference holds its sixth, the Yemeni people enduring the harsh conditions that led to the deployment of invading forces by the Houthi forces, backing Iran, a regional supporter. The milestones plan for water design, implementation of the system, success holds the national dialogue conference, pave the way for foreigners, join the political process.",1,test
1,"The epidemic, in fact, call us ""choosing time trial time, no need to pass the time choice matter, no time saver"". Expand the resources of concrete exchange, transformation, rethinking socio-economic social systems, rich poor base unfair distribution resources. Hand, bet scenarios ""defends regression"" greater personality.",1,test
1,"With 75 years of foundation, the unit country faces a difficult challenge history. The success of working together must stop the mobilization of efforts for the restoration of strong multidisciplinary cooperation.",1,test
0,"creating access to covid vehicle access, including global covax vaccine facility, critical import to africa. ensure equal access to vaccines, therapies, speed of diagnosis ending the pandemic of all.",1,test
2,"regarding the climate, needed recal planet, live live gener come, face crisis aggravated day dramatic rise climate skeptics. Climate crisis put decad progress risk jeopardizes the project carried out including sustain development, while, time, clock click without waiting to act.",1,test
0,"Access to the Botswana accelerator, including eligible training through, among interventions, the implementation of the training program strategy program. etssp is common, the goal is to transform learning, access, retain, improve lifelong learning skills.",1,test
1,ensur countri left behind reiter posit african union econom sanction zimbabw sudan lifting allow government respond adequ pandemic. also called interest payment suspends africa's foreign government debt.,1,test
2,"sinc In the fourth quarter of 2017, Bosnia and Herzegovina faced a transition of illegal names, significantly exacerbating the year. Due to the remaining immigration routes, major immigrants come far east in the middle of the east towards the European Union Territri Bosnia and Herzegovina, causing humanitarian problems and the country's ample resources are it. To solve.",1,test
0,"therefore, order ensures an adequate recovery of the economy ensures global socio-political stability, it needs a solidarity cooperation of internal focus.",1,test
1,"Therefore, international federal cooperation is needed to ensure proper economic recovery and to ensure global socio-political stability.",1,test
1,"Consequently, South-South cooperation, with the exception of North-South relations, expand the accent expansion that collects economic business interests.",1,test
1,"crisi triggers a deep covid-19 effect on the mani family, unparalleled. sens respons respons duti has an impact on fellow citizens ruling andorra examines roadmap envisag legislator, develop guilt-based planning plan that will make it more likely to move forward to develop safety long-term storage.",1,test
2,"""Covid-19 Clichy has revealed a general weakness, and over time, Demonst strives to better understand the benefits of each of us overcom's global challenges. Must be gathered. The current particular context of the great family nation of opportunity, the 75th Anniversary Organ of Celebrities, reaffirms the internship after multiple roles of the primordi of the unit nation in the central location.",1,test
0,"The Cove-19 pandemic revived us to World War II نړیوال the global impact of the massive human cost event again, now, fork pay attention is taking unprecedented action.",1,test
2,"framework covid-19 response, first case diagnosed disease, March 6, togo set crisis committee, person chairman president republic, nation coordinate response, manag committee scientific committee. view the long-term socio-economic impact of illness, also govern launch nation-wide solidarity econom recovery fund totaling CFA francs 400 billion, approximately $665 million. measures taken with regard to the prevention of social distancing, the detection of cases, the mandatory wearing of a mask and raising awareness of the population. also close several countries, impose curfews, close borders, school universities ban gatherings.",1,test
1,"as alreadi said, the republic of serbia within the group of large countries, nor the territorial population. but, judg cultur contributes science, countri among developed nations.",1,test
0,"To help everyone compete with 100 percent marks, Advantag Technology will also enable Corner World.",1,test
0,"from the outset, let us also, on behalf of the ruling peopl sierra leone, express our heartfelt condolences to the member state of the loss of the nation live due to the COVID-19 pandemics. hello, the selfless frontline is responding to the global emergency.",1,test
0,"the coronavirus pandemic affects the extent of the mani count world. however, the region at serious risk is the environment. Unfortunately, an abundance of territorial map can not mention a single speech. therefore, I would like to address an issue that is important to Central Asian nation-states. Aral Sea disaster.",1,test
1,"“In this regard, it is good to remember the cost alreadi large pandem handicap. According to Africa's developing banks, about 50 million people could fall into the Great Depression of 2020. Furthermore, the net loss of Africa will reach $ 100 billion by 2020.",1,test
2,Australia supports those who effortlessly develop a global framework for fairly allocated vaccine therapy.,1,test
2,"""In addition, welcome to the launch of the Coalition Sahel, a basic agreement between the G-5 Sahel countri pooling efforts to combat terrorism.",1,test
1,"although illegal intervention destabilized Yemen's secure years, sustained trust was restored, ours in the current environment could lead to the end of the overall nation-wide ceasefire of the auspicious entity solut solut solut. take into account, affirm decis pursu polit process yemen yemen decision. countri also commends the extraordinary efforts made by the fraternal kingdom in Saudi Arabia. reiter uae ’support Riad agreement call yemen unit posit order reach lasting solution.",1,test
0,"Sudan Continent Active Contribute Support Stable Polit Secure Situation County African Continent, Espace Country Region, Active Membership Region Organ African Union, Igad, Intern Conference Great Lake Region, Sahel Sahara. On occasion, Coronaviru Pandem would like to express the great positive role played by the African Union against Africa.",1,test
0,"well-known, ancient culture rich spiritual heritage region of global importance.",1,test
2,"rebuild best possible right architectural place. The United States, a small developing island, especially, the greatest global threat: remarkable climate change, management of the oceans. therefore, it must be global, mean to impregnate a place of internal architecture. Resources face increasingly scarce complex challenges, the most vulnerable countries face a bleak future. in short, they need nations with fully functional units of work. Need for an agency work Member States of a solid association, multilateral organizations. Know the problems, need to find a way to solve them, create an even bigger problem, the continuing trend undermine multi-sided internal cooperation.",1,test
1,"Improving the construction of 3,500 km of road bridges over 5 years. as well as the modernization of the main vehicles of the port, the restoration of the eastern corridor of the Central Railway of Tanzania, which runs on a standard railway. An important stage is the improvement of the shipyard. Water transport connects the water around the reservoir. The government also controls the purchase of 11 aircraft, eight of which are commercial.",1,test
0,"Although the jury is still reforming, the delegation's observation is that Ming's reforms have provoked a critical reaction from the reformed organization. Confidence, however, has waned, prompting the General Assembly to push for reform of the main organ phase.",1,test
2,"Upset global environment, we assume that there is a toxic debt response extern specul purpos mean underdevelopment of another wave delay.",1,test
2,Selected topic Session 75th gener assembl pertin moment by moment experience of the world. Convincing multitasking is the best way to combine redoubled efforts to reduce global economic costs.,1,test
1,"Part, govern, further empower, poor variety, empower poverty programs. equip program enabl beneficiari start micro small business better survival. Program uplift beneficiari poverti support income generation, food creation.",1,test
1,"Today's long-term joint action is to act alone, to create a world of equality, to improve the resilience to the crisis, to help develop everything.",1,test
1,"yes, today people are talking about twenty-first century first new danger face. Short time, Covid-19 becomes real, maybe a challenging time looms. global challenge recognize borders, races, nationalities, adverse effects sphere civil development. Maybe the whole world felt vulnerable. Hope believe uniti solidar overcom defeat allow humanity to be renewed, smarter, respons farsighted struggle. even if the difficult controversy of the current period gives us a chance to improve the fate of the entire planet. highest political and moral duty, missing opportunities, showing dignity, showing solidarity with true humanism.",1,test
2,"yet, as a novelty, digital technology often spread uncontrollably as well as, like nuclear weapons, crashing into regional high-risk areas, and stopping developing countries, making great strides. music.",1,test
1,"Celebrating the 25th anniversary of the birth of the world's first lady on October 1, Zimbabwe's enlightenment has taken a big step in implementing the Badge Declaration. Including the adoption of the Gender Responsibility Constitution, the creation of the Zimbabwe Gender Commission, Violation of Legal Women by Law Child marriage under discrimination by law is inherited by women. The government will also provide financial access to the Women's Bank's Women-Own Bus project.",1,test
0,"Membership in Kosovo's internal organizations, including national unity, would benefit Kosovo, as well as the entire internship community.",1,test
1,"return driver first-pandem covid-19-impact size for us to see four drivers, worsening epilepsy.",1,test
1,"Framework Kovid-19 Response, First Case Diagnosis, March 6, Togo Set Crisis Committee, Individual Chair Presidency Republic, Country Coordination Response, Manage Commit Scientific Committee. View the long-term socio-economic impact of the disease, the government has launched a total of 400 billion cfa francs to the country’s United Economic Recovery Fund, approximately $ 665 million. Measured social distance, case detection, and compulsory mask avoidance of Mask Education Awareness-Rise in the population. Also close different parts of the country, establish curfew, close borders, school universal ban meetings.",1,test
1,"Continuous disruption of the Covid-19 epidemic destroys livelihoods as well as poses a significant threat to inter-peak security. especi countri Conflict arises Conflict, experiencing a humanitarian crisis, a weak fragile economy can reverse post-war state-building.",1,test
0,"must have space within the current 75 years covid-19 pandem reinvigor rules-bas multilater system. chanc collect recreat condit inclus economic envis 2030 agenda development support. it is necessary to collect abil collection before accident, covid-19 clear test now, it is necessary to respond to several systems.",1,test
2,75th anniversary unity nation autumn moment unusual danger people planet. Covid Pandemic Claims Nearly One Million Live Push Hundred Million Unexpected Hardship. Time doubt hesitation. Hit tool enforce test. Mark import anniversari year.,1,test
2,"It is necessary to promote the ""green circle"" economy, which will create new jobs for the environment.",1,test
0,v Building Resilient Future Crisis,1,test
2,"economic slowdown area of ​​activity private sector cause unprecedented increase in unemployment immediate active unemployment benefits program self-employment assistance program, social security programs, including the nation's food distribution program, the largest food program in the history of the nation.",1,test
0,"75th anniversary of the spread of the coronavirus by world critics. have achieved real success in the union of nations, they must test nature. Today, conflicts have become a regional threat. The influence of extremist groups is also growing. The threat of cyber warfare increases the scope of the strategy of using sophisticated weapons.",1,test
0,"covid-19 crisi brought full imports in solidar cooper imports - among multi-layered organizations, the World Health Organization.",1,test
0,"covid-19 crisi proven misinformation hostile action informs the environment threatens the internal security of man, the effect addressed. crisi demonstr essential needs access to reliable, science-based information. thus, confirm the role-playing pluralistic media, independent, accountable, strengthen transparency, trust in accountability.",1,test
1,It is also necessary to act firmly in the face of environmental climatic emergencies. sea ​​level rise catastrophic meteorological events no longer allow us to ignore the risk of climate change. duti futur gener turn glasgow cop26 success reached target pari agreement.,1,test
1,"Intensification of Julie, Mostli commune trainee call for respect for the ceasefire, restricted conversation. Turkey, however, exacerbates many of the unstable policy lines of neighboring projects in the region, including the eastern Mediterranean, North Africa, and the Middle East. Azerbaijan's unified support expands its military presence, Turkey undermines a stable peace zone, and the Minsk Group co-chair ends a good effort. Turkey directly threatened Armenia showed military aggression postur way provoc Azerbaijani military joint near Vysin Armenia Nagorno Karabakh. Turkey makes the police a traditional kinship region, abuses the conflicts, justifies the crime of Armenian genocide. Turkey threatens the security of the Armenian region.",1,test
1,"It must challenge climate change today to turn a certain figure. They should benefit from the new digital technology while its negative impact can be reduced. The covid-19 accelerator uses artificial intelligence, robotics, digital payments, e-government services, telecommuting.",1,test
0,The threat of the current crisis reverses progress on even the slowest of the new Sustainable Development Goals.,1,test
2,"appreci apoye provid unit nation offic contraterror partners, mejore capac botswana ’newli establezca contraterror analysi fusion agenc order enable us mitig exposur menace.",1,test
2,"On the one hand, Bosnia and Herzegovina's final destination migrants, face a unique geography problem due to the European Union's incoming immigrants. by hand, bosnia and herzegovina understands positively within the common common european security area responsibly, also needs stronger support the european union, also the whole internal community.",1,test
2,"Today, marking the 75th anniversary of the United Nations, Andorra is calling for the addition of voice support agencies for multilateralism. Now, always, must know the view of the spirit of the founders, in the face of a terrible war, well different in terms of order to preserve humanity.",1,test
2,"reduce food loss, which is the basis for achieving sustainable development of three dimensions - economic, social environment. food relations maintenance practice innov solut number of the instrument main problems, crimes, alleviation of hunger, destruction of human health. San Marino considers it crucial to limit food loss, maintaining food consumption practices. to achieve this, you need to recognize the collection of relevant questions, the emphasis needs immediate effect. why, togeth principor andorra, san marino 2019 sponsor resolution design 29 september intern day awar food loss.",1,test
1,"Continuing Competitive Problem The world is facing climate change, the ill-fated planet Coronavirio must remember that the act of collecting addresses is always ours. An old African proverb says, 'If we go fast, we will go fast. I wish we could go away together. ' When we act we need to collect the address so everyone in us is ruthless! Getting together goes a long way.",1,test
1,"Keep in mind, a strong supportive vision ambitious reform agenda UN Secretary-General. Albania’s convincing reform of a single nation delivers an intergroup-wide approach to achieving the 2030 Agenda ensuring that one is left behind.",1,test
2,"In addition, the proposals adopt a special decision-making unit of the National General Assembly, which provides parliamentary support for human rights.",1,test
1,"""The domestic community, especially the non-government, must redouble its efforts to double the growth of the African continent, developing the largest number of countries to a minimum, reflecting the commitment to concrete action instead of the center's priority. Always sharing the promise of renewal suggests the potential that the decision needs to be encouraged.",1,test
2,"sinc joins un 1955 austria proudly honor contribution areas. be it 60 years of peacekeeping, member - current president - human rights council. Austria continued part readi assum responsibilities. Particular reason, sincere UN security council 2027-2028 I look forward to support.",1,test
2,"the hard work requires building a good, peaceful city, young people living a decent life, women with opportunities, less promiscuous people.",1,test
0,"Thanks to the measure carried out, the situation in the country Covid-19 remains under control. Despite economic hardship due to a pandemic, citizen health remains a priority.",1,test
0,"Tajikistan experiences horror impos civil war, value good perceive import overwhelm protect peace.",1,test
1,The statement fully confirms. Socioeconomics eases the final debt recovery of non-performing debt suspensions without regional reconciliation.,1,test
2,"Aspect, I wish to share the Zambian government will launch a multi-sector youth empowerment program that supports young entrepreneurs. The multisectoral approach helps ensure that programs activate creative empowerment employing the right young people in all sectors.",1,test
0,"The Iron County Repres today suggests the small island promotes increased state resistance, taking the decision-making area under considerable effort. The biggest contributor to the secret climate is the chrysanthemum beer, which in turn stimulates the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.",1,test
0,"Romania continues to strongly support multilater rules-bas internal order, un core. romania is committed to cooper safer future all, promote sustainable development, respect human rights, peace security. future wants!",1,test
1,"development, ten years left of what acceler action achiev sustain development goal sdg 2030. however, covid-19 pandem is one of the key delays. So, it has to work harder, it has to improve the way people work. will first be involved in the emphasis on technology development.",1,test
2,new artificial intelligence technology alreadi becom backbon daili live keep core business public service.,1,test
1,"Azerbaijan has taken the necessary time to prevent the virus from spreading. Azerbaijan ’millennium develops advances aimed at achieving goals that enable us to fight disease. Healthcar infrastructur Azerbaijan is undergoing major overhaul, with nearly 700 medical facilities undergoing renovations over the past 17 years.",1,test
2,"similar context, states express deep concern about turkey's military intervention in libya, part of alarm in region interferes in arabic exacerbate humanitarian crisis, undermine efforts to achieve peace resolution, entir instability region. therefore, countri supports the repetition of the call for immediate Libyan ceasefire party calls engaged in the political process of the nation's ospice unit built the outcome of the Berlin conference. further libya conflict, countri calls peac polit solut crisi order achieving ultimate security stability.",1,test
1,Extraordinary efforts need to contrast health emerging global economy contracts result structure unprecedented challenge country. to succeed in restoring the level of health wealth practitioner solidarity tremend efforts people,1,test
1,Defining the war pandemic against Covid-19 should also inspire us to fight the effect of climate while preserving biodiversity.,1,test
1,"“Such case deadli 23 March attack perpetr boko haram chadian defenc secur forc boma lac province. launching forces of power, led clear terrorist elements of the island lake Chad boko haram.",1,test
2,"introduce unprecedented measures to save people alive and reduce the destruction of the economy, minimize unemployment and secure workers' incomes. ensure inclusion approach factor specific need differ seychelles stakeholders, consult with private sector, unions, interfaith civil society organizations are needed.",1,test
2,"The pandemic certainly calls us ""in order to get a choice of time trial time, the problem of time choice is gone and time separation is not necessary."" Representing the transformation and transformation of concrete opportunities, rethinking the social system of the living economy, widening the gap and unfairly distributing the rich and poor foundations. On the other hand, Pandem's opportunity ""defends retreat"" to the larger individual elitism.",1,test
1,"UN Secretary-General, Unit Nation-specific agencies welcome tireless efforts, founding programs provide immediate long-term assistance Member States' human socio-economic impacts as they tackle the COVID-19 pandemic.",1,test
0,"context, congratulations aptli chosen theme 75th session welcome opportune address meeting share perspective “need the future need, unity nation: reaffirm gather commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action.” small nation, like big nation, anticipate, even depend on us, share care for others.",1,test
0,"World trade body takes a proactive role working restoring world economies promoting trade investment. recent gain observ state wto, Turkmenistan activ use opport open open regard promote practic practical overcom quickli crisis phenomena world economy, transit posit dynamics.",1,test
0,"Thanks also to the people of the state who, without its help, would never have formed the largest hospital area, an advancing largest hospital treat the world of coronavirus diseases. Forever Great Deep Admir Great People Government of Japan, Society EximifyLive Serve World.",1,test
0,"Armenia Countri Oppos Initi Hold Special Session UN General Assembly Response Covid-19 As Armenia Situates Coronavirus Desperately. armenia object initi azerbaijan launch it. object pursuit product irrat thought. another demonstrator polici ""azerbaijanophobia"" prevails Armenia promotes government. hatr Azerbaijani people educate the young generation.",1,test
0,"let conclude reaffirm zimbabwe 'commitment to work for a better world. a better way to achieve mutual respect for the peaceful and stable world, the real multilater buttress is in great need of reforming respect for domestic law. re-engage the world in the ideal path that we aspire to.",1,test
0,"Wetlands, vast turf European countries, California, are facing problems. Large fires inevitably result in high local temperatures.",1,test
1,"Armenia, the Azerbaijani offensive in July, proves the biggest obstacle to the stability of the recent peace in the South Caucasus.",1,test
1,"command strengthen mitigation adaptation, govern develop climate change response policy adjust plan. work civil society, academia, intern partners, acceler implement commit par agreement.",1,test
0,"We hope that decades of action will help us to reach our global goals and find ways to maintain global challenges for solute press, climate change, poverty and gender inequality. ..",1,test
1,"also stood fratern people lebanon experience humanitarian catastrophe result explos port beirut, appear result hegemoni hezbollah, terrorist organ affili iran, make decisions process lebanon forc weapons. led disabled constituent state institute lebanon. to reach fratern people lebanon strive for security, stability, prosperity, terrorist organ must be disarmed.",1,test
2,"close mr. The president, would like to reiterate albania 'in support of the reinvigor rule-bas order, unit nation center. we, the international community, must have the support of a multi-stakeholder approach.",1,test
2,"The discussion in the Year of the Topic reminds us to import the unity of key countries that have been found to be multilateral. Joint action, mutual compatibility, respect, the answer was found, the global test pandemic covid-19.",1,test
2,"Context Efforts Prepared for the right conditions Reaching the right conditions Peaceful response Economic humanitarian difficulties Faced brothers Palestine, us, Chordin intern partners, ongoing humanitarian development assistance Besieg Gaza district to meet urgent long-term needs, additional increasing contributions unrwa.",1,test
1,"The United Nation began a prominent pivotal role in the Yemeni political transit process in 2011. Mechanism for implementing the Gulf Agreement, beginning of the transit period. The national government was formed through an elected president. nation dialogu awarded to the participating strata of Yemeni society. Draft dialogue results of Yemeni agreement Referendum subject to Yemeni people's referendum Approval of new elected constitution. However, the Houthi coup disrupted the transit process and dragged the Yemeni people to war.",1,test
2,"Although juri is still reforming, deleg observed manag reform brought a crisis response from the improvisational organization. Nonetheless, the belief remains steadfast, encourage reform efforts by passing the early organs of the general assembly.",1,test
0,"However, the financing of the economy points to the negative consequences of the Kwid-19 ringtone implementing sustainable development goals over time, especially in developed countries.",1,test
2,Belief Global Strategy Collaborative Complementary Finance - Economic Policy Required. Achieve a close partnership with the World Bank wto.,1,test
1,"Therefore, the order will improve the environment of the restorers, improve the environment of the country, the socio-economic situation and govern the launch of the Republic of Burundi in November 2017.",1,test
0,"turkmenistan activity started taking the necessary measures to counter threat to start the spread of the global epidemic. The effect of the time-consuming measure protection, the anti-Coronavirus strategy formed, the formation of a set of organizational, legal, financial, economic and personal medical quarantine measures.",1,test
1,The core support economy figure is transforming sustainable development. mani countri yet realis full ekonom potential digiti mani way mani Ensure the development of the level of self-sufficiency of the people.,1,test
0,"Objective can be achieved develop land mobile set up fund invest help use africa investor interest busi african continent, can produce good services local consumption export.",1,test
2,"by the end of 2020, I had undoubtedly seen a difficult historical term, a public health crisis that brought the coronavirus disease pandemic COVID-19, spreading around the world, causing unheard of human suffering. exposures mani unforeseen vulnerability among communication trainees caused by an unforeseen economic crisis. deliber assembl is still looking for the latest plague treatment. I would like to take the opportunity to pay tribute to the memory of the victim Viru praised overtime work health car worker Avery Count saved millions of lives.",1,test
0,"Achieve success with counter-terrorism, the collective effort must be intensified in tackling the challenge collectively. Including combat finance terror terrorism. Kingdom Support Mani Internal Entity Contribute Reinfork Joint Effort Fighting Challenge. Kingdom Support Un-Terror Center Contributes $ 110 Million Global Center Fighting Terrorist Ideologist Ethid Riyadh. The state also hosts the Internal Terrorist Financial Target Center.",1,test
0,A review of the entire sdgs is needed. pandem also derails the ldcgraduat track. The design of the current plan will support Bhutanese graduate ldc categori 2023. Everything has changed and focus shifts save the pandemic of livelihood challenges.,1,test
0,"united human needs, require multilateral system function, respect democratic sovereignty, participate in consent, reject precious metal exclusion, impose economic sanctions.",1,test
0,"To avoid the loss of inter-organizations, one must first review the psychology and institute rules.",1,test
2,"Small island developing states, including Tonga, contribute one percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, and continue to bear the brunt of climate injustice. result, pacif island country continues imperil mani tropic cyclon magnitud unprecedented destroying nature. the recent harold tropical cyclon in the year of april wreaked havoc in four pacific island nations namely fiji, solomon islands, vanuatu, country, tonga. distress effect grappl epidemic of covid-19.",1,test
1,"Also express gratitude to doctors, paramedics, nurses, technical staff, volunteers, people working selflessly, live health save people in different world.",1,test
1,"Adopted five years ago, the goal of sustainable development is definitely integrated global development. There are ten years left until 2030, let us deceive the difficult time. Countries, especi africa, alreadi out of the way of 2020. The epidemic raises destructive revenue growth around the world, as the new year approaches.",1,test
0,future multilateral dependent transformation global response pandemic COVID 19.,1,test
1,"In recent years, the United Nations continues to expand its sphere: the issue of improving people's living conditions has become a key element of the multilateral agenda. eradication of poverty, fight against injustice, development of a formula for initiating climate change. The obvious pandemic will worsen the situation, but also serve to change the paradigm, to create a green world at the right time, to rise to the national level, to approach the main political action in support of transvestites, the level of interns in the world of cooperation.",1,test
2,"Take Opportunity Underline Pros Import Roll Administrator Presidency Unit State America Donald Trump Play Agreement, Import Signal Commit Lost Sustain Solate Import Issue.",1,test
1,"The $ 2 billion socio-economic incentive package will ensure economic stability, solve problems, and ensure macroeconomic and financial stability. Social assistance covers about 5 million people, half of the population.",1,test
2,"Houthi troops, sent by the ndc, welcomed the development. early prepar coup period nationwide. started mobil forc ensur collapsing city citi displac local citizens. even the capital city, sana'a, in September 2014, took over state government offices and violated the political legitimacy. restricts freedom, home invasion attacks school worship. suppress outcry over harassment of citizens. the military is changing profession, high history, living tradit prices, big prisons put people in jail.",1,test
1,"also essentially consider carrying out cooperation, adopt a multidimensional approach that goes beyond the head of the population, by not defining the criteria for determining formal rights to develop assistance. 60 percent of the poor live in countries with uncomplicated averages. serve the countries, demonstrate solidarity understand the real progress built for all those involved, make small progress achieve the development objectives.",1,test
2,"year, due to low winter precipitation saw rivers of a water storage region significantly reduced, turn led a low-wat season irrigation caus severe severe drought.",1,test
0,"Response Intern Community Bloodshes Yemen, continue for five years, stop the humanitarian crisis.",1,test
2,"desperate cruelty, the pandemic gave us the opportunity for rapid import growth supported the development of the 2030 goal agenda.",1,test
1,"""A landless Sahelian state, Alredi is facing a crisis of numbers, Chad is suffering entirely from mania to influence the pandemic at different levels of national life. to be present at the national priorities of the country, to redirect the limits of the state limit of resources, first of all the health, humanitarian socio-economic emergencies.",1,test
2,"2019, brazil victim crimin seepag venezuelan oil, sold without proper control, result seriou damag environment big loss fishing tourism industry.",1,test
1,"context, would also like to recall an extraordinary historical nation of the nobel peac laureate, former secretary-general dag hammarskjold, whose 115th anniversary marked the memorial year. consider a tireless inspiration of promoting the concept of preventing diplomacy. said hammarskjold, die crisi management hot mission, trust of mutual respect dialogue sincere negotiations between potential parties to the conflict at an early stage can prevent the outbreak of war.",1,test
0,"For 75 years there are unitary nations, a source of pride. overall result cooper framework un, manage prevent major military conflicts reduce human suffering.",1,test
1,"Botswana, a semi-arid county erat rainy frequent droughts, attach a large target for import 13 climate action. climatic conditions affect livelihoods, hinder food production. moreover, the recent drought result is a source of water, including wildlife. contribution anim death escal conflict man-wildlife.",1,test
1,"Country, youth with half the population, expansion work is going on, ensure that every youth takes a place to showcase the potential of the society.",1,test
0,"Fighting climate Chang constantly a priority andorra, county special awar nature environment. Year Earth Year Climate Action Plan New Scenario Understanding, Mark Ratif New Material Reduc Greenhouse Ga Emissions, Climate Chang Conference Cop 26 Organized Unit Empire. Andorra unequivocally agreed to the Pari Agreement 2015, reflecting the Pass Low Energy Transit Fight Climate Chang Contribution Pari Agreement. Indeed, first County plans to downsize the establishment, as County Sink Aware should save the Resource Nature Environment future payoffs. Because, extra efforts to fight climate change.",1,test
0,"underestimating cruelty, serious illness allowed us to increase imports to boost the 2030 target.",1,test
1,disrespect natur caus climat chang neg human impact. destroy ecosystem biodiversity link new diseases covid-19 illustration.,1,test
1,global crisis caus covid-19 also highlights severe gender inequality.,1,test
1,"Tajikistan experiences horror imposing civil war, well assesses import perception excel protect peace.",1,test
0,digit economi essenti support transform support development. mani countri maar realis full econom potenti digit economi mani way to develop self-sufficient people.,1,test
1,"in the end, could not express gratitude. Antonio Guterres, Secretary of Nations, competence, selflessness, organization.",1,test
2,"Thanks also to the state of Japan, without whose help it would never have been possible to establish the largest hospital region and the largest hospital to treat coronaviru disease in the world. forev deep grid admire ruling great people japan, exemplified society giving world servic.",1,test
1,"grow broad support common african posit evid recent intergovernmental negotiations member state express affirm call correct histor wrong done africa. vein, would encourage the assembly to address the long-standing injustice. look ahead construction enga build progress made past order reached understand reform secure council meeting.",1,test
1,"Combating Plastic Pollution, Concern Tonga Notice Alert 12 million tons of plastic garbage leak ocean annually. arouse great interest address threat initiate process ban single-us plastics. Nation region problem, also global problem, require global solution.",1,test
1,"The global trend of challenging crisis either unites us and separates us from its true form, COVID-19 creates an unprecedented link between countries. the learned crisis reminds us that we belong together, the disrespectful location, the planet of time distance. time story reflects focus should honestly transform deepli explore the lesson learned therefore, rethink the gener form the future i want. therefore, the right time raises big questions, makes big decisions to carry out solidarity action.",1,test
0,"in relation to climate, the planet of indispensable memory, live live gener come, face crisi exacerbate the day of dramatic rise of climate skeptics. klima crisi put the decade of risk of jeopardized progress the project undertaken brings sustainable development involvement, while, time, continuous clock click without waiting to act.",1,test
1,"He also launched the Solomon Island Bank Development Objective to provide a financial services sustainability objective for the development of rural areas, particularly primary small and medium-sized enterprises and commercial industries.",1,test
0,"yes, today spoke of the first new danger facing the twenty-first century human. Short term, Covid-19 becomes a real perhap threatening time challenge. global challenge recognizes borders, races, nationalities, the detrimental effect of the development of the civiliz sphere. perhap whole world felt vulner common threat severe first time mani decades. I hope we believe united solidarity overcom defeat will allow humanity to become renewed, wiser, responsive to vision. despite the current period difficult controversies give us a better change in the fate of the entire planet. the highest moral politeness dutiful miss chance, show dignity, true humanism solidarity.",1,test
1,"why, start a pandemic, Argentina is focusing on primarili to protect vulnerable live care, implement urgent measures to prevent the collapse of the health system mitigating the immediate impact of the pandemic.",1,test
1,"Thanks to everyone. Relative Base Respect People's self - determination with equal rights, fork territory without threat of resort fork Comprehensive political independent living system absurd unit country principles. Is it Does Principal Value Truly Control Today's Internal Relations? Isn’t talk point just the use of political media?",1,test
2,"govern large resource expenditures, spend 8% of GDP, mitigate the impact of the public health crisis, amid the sharp decline in foreign exchange earnings.",1,test
0,The speech is completed without strong appeal and removes all weapons. The causes of life planets that pose a threat to existence amaze human suffering.,1,test
0,"The delivery address via a video link may be emblematic of extraordinary weather, it is also a sign of the resolution of adaptation and use. So even though as you travel together keep finding a way to collect Planet Reset Vision and Pandem Pledges.",1,test
2,"Number Verified Violations Children still worry about education, a priority, yet assault. Particularly worrying is the impact of COVID-19 on the hands of vulnerable group children.",1,test
2,"The spirit of solidarity governs the sincere priority and the epidemic of poverty, one is safe, everyone is safe.",1,test
0,"Launch an effective microclimate to reduce fresh water due to climate change. According to the Azerbaijani Refugee Agreement, the voluntary obligation to obtain 35 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions 2030 was achieved in 1990.",1,test
0,"Stronger multilateral principles require the creation of just, peaceful societies, dignified young people, opportunistic women, men, and protected small vulnerable groups.",1,test
2,"In all countries, 1 million rural health care plays an important role for voluntary patients, regardless of nationality, which guarantees equal access to treatment. In addition, the Royal Thai Government also fully supports the development of the Kovid-19 vaccine. Thailand is launching a vaccine research program, as well as encouraging online partners. It takes into account the availability of ""global public goods"" for Covid-19 vaccines. The unity of the nation must play an important role.",1,test
0,"They also expressed their concern regarding the Corona epidemic in the conflict zone at risk, and the region least prepared to address the danger.",1,test
2,"The national community, the commitment of the demonstration, the compass courag makes a difficult decision to begin the Taliban's direct peace story. Not enough. You need to maintain Afghanistan and get the root terrorist problem.",1,test
0,"Intern Communities peespeci Secure Council - Suppose the legally responsible Israel Lift Seag Gaza Strip, Peak Process Back Track Credible Negotiation Support Intern Resolution Force, Final Status Issues Focus on a Specific Deadline 1967 Establish an independent state within borders. The capital of Jerusalem, Israel eventually occupies the Arab territories.",1,test
1,Arbitrary eng county like Barbados should be discontinued. Happened without cognitive involvement. Contradictory law is natural justice. Combine Factor Push Country Back State Post Colony Penny.,1,test
2,Take care of the citizens and find true basic cooperation.,1,test
0,"open overly tough emphasis, a rules-based multilateral trading system that supports a global recovery. system allows countries to trade ways of good mutual benefit. raises hundr million people poverty. covid-19 consequences, looked at how support strengthens the system to make future work better. there is also a need to rebuild a safe and secure transport network to facilitate the mobility of people.",1,test
2,"Last year, the Albania Regional Conference ""Instrument for the Religion of Peace"", in partnership with the US State Department, aimed to promote freedom of religion based on human rights.",1,test
1,"call on the podium intense global efforts to face a major challenge face climate change in the human zone, poverty, organic crime, the spread of epidemics, the challenge needs to strengthen the honeymoon bright future general can live stability, peace, security.",1,test
1,"Weakness caused by the pandemic, rising unemployment - the 4th industrial revolution in the world. The digital age is before us, it calls us to adapt to the way of consumption, work, management.",1,test
1,"Elabor solut solution Together, the introduction of tasks in the G20 countries, communication between international organizations also leads to difficulties, because the impact of the epidemic requires the development of a new horizon.",1,test
0,"""Covid-19 Clichy has revealed a general weakness, and over time, Demonst strives to better understand the benefits of each of us overcom's global challenges. Must be gathered. The current particular context of the great family nation of opportunity, the 75th Anniversary Organ of Celebrities, reaffirms the internship after multiple roles of the primordi of the unit nation in the central location.",1,test
1,"The numerically important intern effort response crisis launches great promise - say two global compact refugee immigrants - yet the needless political support has been successful. Other failed personality state shirk response responsibilities. Well, the unit that provides the opportunity for the current crisis is helping to build a brotherly compassionate society in the country.",1,test
2,"romania pays special attention to young people, in particular to the vocational train of education concerned. such, double number scholarship offer for the academic year 2020-2021 foreign citizen, particularly attention africa. believe, ensure continuing education for young people, contribute to the principle of “building back better”.",1,test
0,"considers pandemic covid-19, led an unprecedented global crisis, liter demands hundr thousand lives, affects one million people threaten erod eyes progress alreadi made implement sustain develop goal 2030 agenda sustain develop agenda 2063 african union.",1,test
2,"therefore, the belarus advocate supports the pragmatic initi within un order that can realize a potential organ to maintain the internal security of peace.",1,test
1,"Endless grief The Afghan people, especially women and children, for the last 40 years, have rendered services worth mentioning that a charter, also an unfulfilled commitment, ""to keep the security of internal honey.""",1,test
2,plan implement project target strengthen africa's capacity third summit between turkey-african union plans to hold turkey next year.,1,test
0,"Houthi militia, sent repres ndc, welcomes developments. start time prepare the coup of the country. mobil forc began ensur collapses city citi displaced citizen regions of origin. Even invade capital, sana'a, September 2014, took the state institute as a hostag undermining the political climate of the elected. suppressing liberties, the assault houses ruined the worship in the school place. repressing the dissenting voice harassing citizens. militia transform sana'a, citi steep history, tradit civil coexistence, great prison put people behind bars.",1,test
1,"Armenian carri ethnic cleansing occupies the territory of the Azerbaijani people. Azerbaijan expelled the occupied territories. Azerbaijani citizens commit war crimes in Armenia. Armenia has created a criminal, terrorist puppet regime and will occupy secret territories.",1,test
0,Public Preserved Vero Talk Back Show-19 Oversight Committee. The public weekly address also informs the nation live on television. Assure the people that the government will take action to protect the country. Managing the creation of the fuco in the establishment of the necessary health infrastructure in the hospice residence may infect the person with the virus.,1,test
0,"the time of the covid-19 pandemic is reminiscent, but still interconnected. global fluctuations on the brink of uncertainty need a ""national unit one"". global solidar unifi response best armor pandemic socio-economic impact people face. reaffirming support and developing partner ongoing assistance to reduce the impact of the pandemic. I hope the success develops a vaccine evenly distributed. let's spread a faster virus, hatred, fear of misinformation.",1,test
2,"Unit Nation Sustainable Sector Action Recent Years: Live Conditions of People of Color Improve People's Condition Development-related matter has become a key element of the multilateral agenda. Develop a vision Formula End poverty, fight inequality, fight injustice, start climate action. Clear pandemic bad situation, stimulus push should also serve paradigm change, Governance Andorra assured right time to build better green world, nation level, main line political action in transverse way to maintain attitude, internal level within the region to cooperative world should be maintained.",1,test
0,"Iranian regime, line hostile attitude, easy state of target oil last year in clear violation intern laws. Therefore, Assault Intern Peak Secure ignores stable global economy Secure Oil supply intern markets. The Iranian regime is also on, Surrogates, Target Kingdom, Launching, Date, 300 Ballistic Missile 400 Arm Drone UAV Stark Violet unsc Resolution 2216 2015 2231 2015. Experienced Iranian regime threatens us to close partial solvent apin intern peak security. The solute firm ensures that an internal position is required. The basic solvent is the Iranian regime's attempt at weapons of mass destruction, the ballistic missile program, the interfaith inter-affair countries, the sponsored terrorism.",1,test
0,"As many as 783 million people live in extreme poverty worldwide. however, in June 2020, the global economic crisis could force 71 million people by 2020, so that profit returns have taken place in recent decades.",1,test
1,"Venezuela, Tell You, Necessary Guarantee Hold Parliamentary Election Invite World Join Us, Live Democracy, No Nobody ABL Take Away Venezuela People Right Election New Legal Power, Sin Fundament Tool Collect Express Original Power. One Decide as Venezuelan Intervention Case-Ever- Nation, Respect Thu Demand Respect.",1,test
0,Cultural Heritage The territory of the people of Azerbaijan Today Armenia has been looted. Armenia also destroys the occupied territories of Azerbaijan's historic religious monuments. Aim for the traces of Azerbaijan of the times there.,1,test
2,"We must note the separation of the year of calling bellaru active resumption of security intern a broad dialogue, designed to overcome the current contradictory relationship between states. Dialogue would enable multilateralism with the basis of the world order to return and have a constructive effect.",1,test
2,"Accelerator of access quad tools, including the Caucasus International Vaccine Facility, Critical Imports Africa. Ensure everyone has equal access to vaccines, treatments, diagnostic speed pandemics.",1,test
0,"“That low-level synergistic compound between various initi forc present sahel. therefore, time of belief translation word action sahel honor commitment contribution marshal addit resources make g-5 joint force fulli oper implement develop project g-5 sahel prioriti invest program.",1,test
0,"requires everyone, government officials, public policy, scientific knowledge, to promote the development of the ultimate goal of human justice.",1,test
1,"in order to avoid loss of reputable internal organizations, you must first review the mindset, set the rules.",1,test
1,"in addition, in-country testing capacity. possibly help the people republic in china australia, can add a clear theme. said, set the standard operating procedure the different sector guides us to deal with the global pandemic. double object. The number one priority is protecting countries that violate borders. the second object keep the economy afloat. confid viru border violations contain quarantine management stations.",1,test
2,"“Such case died on March 23 attack perpetr boko haram chadian defense secur forc boma lac province. Force Response Launch Forces, led terrorist elements from Clear Island Lake Chad Boko Haram.",1,test
0,"Last year, Organ Albania Region Conference, ""Religion Means Peace"", US in collaboration with the State Department, aims to advance the Freedom of Religion Fundamental human rights issue.",1,test
1,"In conclusion, Unit Nation Family Nation Complimentary Membership must work together to renew the partnership facing covid-19. You also need to be engaged continuously. Regards, we Somalia reaffirm that after multiple overcoms the common global obstacl capit everi opportun will create a better, safer and equal world. Your excellence,",1,test
1,"natur relat africa countri Coloni past redefin order transform pain histori Colon opportun Mutual benefit cooperation, can't lose sight Fact conquest enslav Africa strong resistance people Africa defense invas free colony York claim million living Africa left deep wounds not healed It remains.",1,test
0,"with regard to the agenda of the Burundian Presidency Council, always said that Burundi unfairly included the agenda of the Soviet Council, a political reason personal interest certain powers, not a prosperous Burundian population any way a threat to international security.",1,test
0,"should take into account the year of active call belaru resume comprehensive dialogue internal security, the current overcom goal contradicts relat between states. dialogu would allow to build a global effect on the basis of multilateralism.",1,test
1,"The Armenian Counter-Opposite Anti-Corruption General Assembly is holding an extraordinary General Assembly, where the situation in Armenia, Coronaviru, is hopeless. The Armenian object Anti-Azerbaijan is driving it. The product of object effort is irregular thinking. د انوت مظاهر پولیس ""اذربایجانفوبیا"" د ارمنیا حکومت هڅوي. Hatter Azerbaijanis create a young generation.",1,test
1,"share form future immediately fulfill promise take our unforeseen deed cooper coordin action level global village' community, economi governance.",1,test
0,"second, a decline in global pool knowledge that reduces bifurc. scientific knowledge of public shares of countries. The prime minister said last season that a global vaccine summit needed a multi-faceted vaccine. Covid-19 vaccine requires universal access to the Internet",1,test
2,"mr. president, barbados economy recovery social impact covid-19 pandemic slow painful. resuscit economi balance act reopen tourism-rel servic air travel, make sure the population stays safe. given import global tourism industry, clear view of priority of the labor sector among the frontline worker, gets approval for vaccinations. 100 million people back to work, boost the world's biggest economic driver,",1,test
1,"program, SDGs not included, priority pharmaceutical health sovereignty, sustainable macroeconomic finance stability.",1,test
2,"Achieving a sustainable vision for the development of people hing heavyili safeti secur. Global pandemic Unfortunate threat escalates, illegal smuggling of small arms, piracy, cybercrime of traffickers. Trinidad and Tobago continues to be fully committed to the arms trade, given the community's stubborn desire to use small arms.",1,test
1,"Given the country's experience in combating terrorism, the extremist drug smuggling viewpoint presents the Tajik peace, which determines the first-time candidate for Tajikistan's non-permanent seat of the United Nations Security Council 2028-2029.",1,test
2,"Let's praise the theme year genre public gathering. It may be time to criticize, find that the deadliest pandemic affects the horrible practices of the modern world. mani sad life lost mani continue attack ongo attack. It may take some time to reflect, Viro Chang looks alive, along with reducing the effects.",1,test
0,deliberate attack armenia 2017 led to the death of 2 year old grandmother zahra guliyeva.,1,test
2,"deliv nation address via video link can be symbolic at extraordinary time, it is also a sign of resolv adapt make use available. so even though you travel together with the person, keep finding the way to collect the vision and reset the planet.",1,test
2,"current threaten complex situation prove state people world interconnect regular dialogue, trust close cooper among us extremely important.",1,test
0,"""Regarding Sudan, Chad Welcomecom signed the PD Agreement, the Sudanese Party 31 August Juba Thanks for the Mediation Efforts, Chad Partner, Leadership President Salva Kiir Mayardit Republic of South Sudan, whose person congratulations.",1,test
1,"Houthi militia, representative sent ndc, welcomes developments. start time preparation of the country for the coup. began mobil forc ensur collapsed city citi moving the regions of origin of citizens. even invading the capital, sana'a, september 2014, took the hostag of the state institute undermining the legitimate elected political climate. suppress freedoms, the raid house blew up the cult from the school place. suppress dissent out loud harass citizens. the militia transforms sana'a, the history of the city, civil coexistence, the big prison puts people behind bars.",1,test
2,"Escal Alarm Sichuat Country URG Intern Commune Undertake Additional Measures Coordination Action Fight Terrorism, Drug Manufacturers Traffic Counter Drugs, Similarly Deliver Time Assist Government People Afghanistan.",1,test
0,"The country, half of the youth, is carrying out its activities to put the potential youth in the potential position of the demonstrators of the society.",1,test
0,"denial of power help to revive the economy - whether refinancing moratoriums, even access to a concession loan - causes us greater economic difficulties.",1,test
0,"Of course, sponsor the finances of terrorism, the current Turkish regime is a supreme power. The Turkish regime is one of the main sponsors of terrorism in Syria. The aid provides support in the form of a continuous provider of tens of thousands of foreign terrorist Syrians. carri 'turkification' forc displac polici territory syria occupied. Dozens of cities in Hasaka, which has renounced Turkish occupation to punish one million people, the Turkish regime's adviser has repeatedly cut off the city's water supply, killing civilians, especially the COVID-19 pandemic. legal terms, war crimes, crimes of humanity. The way, criminal behavior terrorist exhibition water supply million civil damascu 2017. then, as now, self-style human rights protection, even raising a finger.",1,test
0,"mher yegiazarian, an Armenian journalist-politician, died in prison following a hunger strike in January 2019. Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, Other Liberation Homes Turn a blind eye to the brutal inhumane acts of the authoritarian Armenian regime. The reason for the Pashinian regime's sponsorship of Soro sponsors non-governmental human rights members around the world.",1,test
1,"first teacher everi child mother father, family, universe declare human rights describe ""natur fundament group unit society"". often the victim family form ideolog coloni weakens the members of the end product, especially the vulnerable, the young, elderly, orphaned and lacking in roots. famili rupture reflect social fragment hamper the effort to confront common enemies. time reassess re-engage achieve goals.",1,test
1,"Albania seeks to make full use of its economic potential, aligns the priorities of the nation until 2030, develops the agenda, develops a national strategy for integration.",1,test
1,"follow logic neutral policy turkmenistan intention to submit draft resolutely ""the role unity nation region center prevent diplomaci central asia"" general assembly 'consider to guarantee peace in the region, develop security, unleash potential to prevent diplomacy.",1,test
1,"take a look at the impact of the pandem epidemic, the government of tajikistan as well as the prevention of the spread of the disease in an effort to find ways to help ensure local economic growth.",1,test
1,"Succeeding in crisis prevention requires accountable leadership. The ultimate answer of the ruling leader is the decision-making policy of the right to real knowledge, the policy of calculating the power of selfish interests. Opposite - incompetence, bad information - deadly consequences",1,test
0,The illegal name of the intern company is legally liable for its use of Azerbaijan's natural resources. Do not stop the illegal activity immediately. Allreadi in Azerbaijan begins to take legal action.,1,test
0,"but, spirits, have also led uncertainty to question the future.",1,test
2,"Feel justice, end the sanctions, suffer. The people rule Cuba. Cubid-19 solidarity scientists, health practitioners fighting Covid-19, are respected.",1,test
1,"require all, public authorities, the private initiative of civil society, scientific knowledge, inspiration support the development of goals, fundamental human rights, lie basic actions.",1,test
1,"cooper un secur council au peac secur council contributions improv peac secur darfur region of sudan, south sudan, somalia, mali central african republic.",1,test
2,"July 12, 2020, Armenia carries out another provocation along the state border. 76-year-old civilian military personnel are killed due to artillery bombarding the district of Azerbaijan, expanding damaged civilian infrastructure.",1,test
2,"Special attention needs to be paid to Wulner groups, especially the youth. Economic Impact Result Pandem Lead Increases Number of Unemployed Youth, Prompt Countries Escape From Origin.",1,test
1,"Think of the situation of alarm in the Amazonian indigenous peoples. see environment crisi insepar link social crisis, take care of the environment call an integrated approach to combat poverti exclusion.",1,test
0,"act uniti management keep the number of cases low. today, record 261 reported cases, 192 cured. mortality covid-19 remains zero.",1,test
2,"Iranian regime interfering with the Yemeni rebellion Carrie Surrogate, the Houthi militia, supports the legitimate government. The political, economic, and humanitarian crisis has led to the suffering of fraternal People Yemen. Rebellion threat Security Country Region Sea Lane is a key global economy. Furthermore, the flow of Houthi militia is hampering the humanitarian aid to the people of Yemen. Obstacle to attempt also political lone Yemen attempt to reject Diesel situation, Coalition support announces latest ceasefire legitimate Yemen response last April, attempt to allow order Kovid-19 bet Yemen move on. Instead, continue to target the civilian state of Yemen.",1,test
2,"well awar truth secur well problem discussed jubile un gener assembl call consolid effort basi valu unit our, share history memori, allianc guided anti hitl coalit participants may have different ideas of choice than national peace victory .",1,test
1,"the hand of the kingdom extends the iranian peak open attitude in recent decades, benefit. the kingdom receives northern iran, the president's senior officials, amid the kingdom's efforts to find a way to build a foundation for good neighborly relations mutual respect. Kingdom welcome trainee effort deal Iranian nuclear program, again, the whole world with the Iranian regime exploit efforts order intensification of expansionist activities, creation of terrorist networks, use of terrorism, process of wasting resources wealth of Iranian people goal expansionist project produced hast .",1,test
0,"The conclusion should unnecessarily provide the effect of multiple mobilization of stakeholders, governments, business finance sectors, academia civil society. in order to find the sustainability of current global challenges, it must listen to the spokesperson society, women girls, young children, even the weakest situations of the people.",1,test
1,"think key condit polit stabilization, social econom recoveri afghanistan, success integr global economi implement larg infrastrur project afghanistan ’involving primarili sector vital energy, transport communications.",1,test
0,"Continuing violent terrorism must continue to challenge the equal import that challenges human existence, maintaining development goals, tackling poverty, climate change, and piracy.",1,test
2,"“Regarding climate change, chad - sahelian country subject to damage effect existential threat, strong impact on the sector founding economy - remain committed to implementing the climate change betting agreement.",1,test
0,"the sras-cov-2 pandem is forcing us into unimaginable situations. the world suddenly stopped the week of the first reported covid-19 victim: schools, factories, offices, roads, stadiums, etc.",1,test
0,"Armenia's priority is to stop genocide. The nation puts an end to atrocities, the moral response is humanitarian memory victim genocidal attempts internal communism prevents recurring atrocities crimes.",1,test
2,The year of celebrating the diamond jubilee of the nation's unity. Free continuity make the quality differ live mani people all over the world. jubil sadli mar covid 19 pandem brought the forefront import unit multilater effect cooper build the future want.,1,test
1,"Instruct the head of state in the state, introduce a plan to invest 500 billion kfa francs for 2020-2024, ensure the health and stability of the automotive system.",1,test
1,"Coronaviru spread constantly all over the world, hit another country, infected millions of people, took a hundred thousand lives. moreover, covid-19 causes widespread fear in the future. the health pandemic crisis, as well as the humanitarian security crisis, the pronounced problem of the existing structure within nations, coronavirus attacks the worldwide community that led to the collapse of the global economy, the long-term effect of which can not yet be fully assessed. Blocking human influence suspends the disproportion of socio-economic activity felt in the weakest groups, including indigenous peoples, ethnic minorities, people with disabilities, women. inadequacy of the health system gap protection of the structure unequal structure environment degradation of the climate crisis: the pandemic shows us the fragile world. the health crisis of the nation's responsibility, also expand humanitarian aid by means of rescue, creating the instrument of rapid socio-economic impact.",1,test
2,"Unspeakable grief for the Afghan people, especially women and children, for 40 years, the service recalls relev un charter, and also the unfulfilled promise, ""Maintain the security of the trainee peace.""",1,test
1,"""When the world is confronted with the coronavirus, the African continent, especially the basin of Lake Chel, the Sahelo-Saharan region, and the head of the innocent victim, Daley, need to make a serious compromise.",1,test
2,"Over the last 75 years, the member states of the unit countries have continually overcome global challenges. This year, the world is facing a health crisis covid-19 often affects people in living conditions on the economic and social system — obscuring a special natural 75th anniversary unit country. Indeed, a great challenge will be to test your faith.",1,test
0,"Expected Yields Follow Positive Outcome, Follow Domestic Economic Reform, Contextual Tough Measures, Tough Impact, Direct Impact, Coming Soon Current Barrier Affects Product Chain, Prices Major Export Commodities, Paralysis Service Affects Key Sector Economy, Give High Unemployment Rate Warning .",1,test
1,"See the whole SDG is needed, the epidemic will also take us off the LDC graduate track. The design of the current scheme helps in Bhutan Graduate LDC Category 2023.",1,test
1,"First, the modern suppli chain integrated. Extremely difficult to complete the product key on land Due to the expertise of other cases, you always need a multi-step process. mani countri The experience of disrupting the flow of good obstruction is essential. suppli chain chain ""just-in-time"" effici review basi ""just-in-case"".",1,test
0,"Impact of Thailand Pandem Control Role Model Healthcare Management Political Decision Strong Health System System is a key factor in achieving the Universal Health Coverage Scheme. Recognition health public import fork drive development towards country security, development sustainability. In relation to Thailand Share Knowledge Expiry Interest Country Foreign Policy Global Health FPG Initiative.",1,test
2,"Sao Tome and Principe Preparation Graduation Category Medium-Income Country December 2024 Facts Pride, Recognition Efforts reflect the progress made by the country Key sector achieving sustainable development.",1,test
0,"Containment of the government's refusal to respect commitment contains a political agreement, a collective violation of trained humanitarian law, the continuation of human rights, the commission of a crime to the civilian population, and the agreement of signing a particular arm group. The group also continued to rearm as an illegal means, thus undermining the nation's peace reconciliation process, ensuring social cohesion.",1,test
0,"The unitary nations, within the current world context, portray total realities differ in a basic establishment, they seek to reflect within the internal structure geopolitical characteristic realiti current order to make organ abl safeguard balance global interests.",1,test
0,"from the last quarter of 2017, bosnia herzegovina faces a major problem of illegal migration, the year deteriorates significantly. migration routes remain narrow, large migrants come on average eastward towards the european union territory of bosnia herzegovina, present a major safe humanitarian problem, solving many resources.",1,test
0,"On the one hand, Bosnia and Herzegovina final destination migrants, face problem solely because of geographical proximity to the European Union entri point migrants. hand, bosnia and herzegovina understand the attitude within the internal community of the european security zone responsibly, also need stronger support from the european union, the entire internal community.",1,test
2,A multilateral future depends on transforming the global response to COVID-19.,1,test
1,"Regard, I would like to share the Zambian government is launching a multi-sector youth empowerment program to support young entrepreneurs. The multisectoral approach helps ensure that the program employs young opportunists in all sectors.",1,test
2,"serious complex problems in relation to neighbors carry out the solution of exclusive dialogue, take into account stakeholders.",1,test
2,post-pandem World Exazerb Sever Refuge Displace Person Crisi Face Planet Region. Answer promot guarantee human rights migrants.,1,test
2,"believ reciprocal step specific issue would provide sound basis launch serious, deep dialogue enter rang factor affects the stability of the strategy. was aimed at achieving comprehensive arrangements, form a solid founded internal secur architectur build before field experience field exist future politico-military technological reality.",1,test
2,"The region suffers Mani Dasha try forc extrem chao impos malign view polici order hijack The current future of the countries, be aware Aspir people Region development, prosperity, peace. Empire, Path Future Vision 2030 Aspire Create Strong Economy Com Interact Surround Contribution Active Progress Civil Mankind.",1,test
2,"Wish to remind us all, collect the effort to deal with the corona, you must lose your sight brought the need for an address without the challenge of climate change. The Reiter government's move means more implementation of greenhouse gas emissions reductions. In addition, contact with ambiti nation determin nation. Let us stick to science and it will tell us we are trying to raise the global temperature by 1.5 degrees Celsius.",1,test
0,"Coronaweir bet Chang world completely, as a result, a new reality has emerged. Initially, the virus was expected to affect developing countries. However, the impact of Pandem importance will make the country better developed. Show wire identification boundaries. Mutual support is a joint effort over మ్com pandemic.",1,test
1,The current crisis is slowly threatening to drive new sustainable development goals.,1,test
2,Youth Continuity - 60 Percent Popularity 24 Years Old - Enormous Natural Resource Significant Economic Power Economic Social Transformation. Africa Light is the time to look serious.,1,test
1,"promoting the protection of essential human rights argentina police in the state 1983. final decision ratification of grant component statu exist internal human rights instruments, well activate the region internal levels.",1,test
2,"Process, depriving people, knowing, great impact on psychosocial. You may draw a dull line today. It can affect the minds of today's ordinary children.",1,test
2,"Social protection medical system Cardin strengthens mitigation negative effect pandem target support providing population, sector economy business.",1,test
0,"economic, trade, financial embargo impos cuba mani a year ago continues to be another major concern. reason, sao tome and princip reiter call sanction lift order allow cuba to face an economic social challenge develop without constraint impose unfair sanction take better advantage of business opportunities related to an equal organization of the member state.",1,test
1,"context, the 75th session, Turkmenistan intends to intensify work elaborate internal legal instrument un stable field reliabl energi transit.",1,test
2,"can speak clearly, insufficient today. Necessary retail work save the sea of ​​aral concrete practical help support provide the people live there. thus, I firmly believe that, subject to the need of the Aral Sea, the system understands the approach of the relevant legal document in question, separate from the direct activities of the United Nations. In this regard, Turkmenistan has offered to initiate a special program for the Aral Sea basin.",1,test
2,"suriname focu strongli gener invest business opportunities. Main reason administr develop act broadest implement sdg number 17, promote facilit clean corrupt free public-private partnership ppp.",1,test
0,"coming end, 2020 has undoubtedly seen a difficult historical term. expos mani unforeseen vulnerability among internal community causes unprecedented economic crisis. deliber are still assembling in search of the ultimate cure for the plague. would like to take opportunity to pay tribute memori victims viru praise exceptional work health care workers everi countri save millions of lives.",1,test
0,"Covid-19 pandemic makes the African continent in turmoil. Tunisian stress working together African brother working together makes ongoing understanding a challenge. situation, reiter support silenc africa team. initiating efforts requires the support of the majority of African countries without conflict causing development.",1,test
0,"2019 albania difficult year. hit two power earthquakes, left 50 people dead billion US dollars damage.",1,test
1,"75 years exist unity nations, a plentious reason proud of it. resulting in a global framework of un-cooperators, managed to avoid major military conflagr reduce human suffering.",1,test
0,Pandem Enfus Interconnect collects vulnerabilities. The intern intern's commune comes with Lari behind the vision charter.,1,test
2,"Impact of Thailand Pandem Control Role Model Healthcare Management Political Decision Strong Health System System is a key factor in achieving the Universal Health Coverage Scheme. Recognition health public import fork drive development towards country security, development sustainability. In relation to Thailand Share Knowledge Expiry Interest Country Foreign Policy Global Health FPG Initiative.",1,test
2,"In fact, a pandemic will happen that has shown us that we maintain a development objective, an import guide, a global crisis-type combat.",1,test
2,"the polit militari conflict persists central african republic, eastern province democratic republic of the congo, south sudan, libya, sahel, emerging terrorist groups, terrorist action el chebab group east africa boko haram central west africa.",1,test
0,"Turkmenistan strongly believes in the future and continue to strengthen the building of a strategic partnership organization, thus making the contribution open the exhaust and the potential interest of world peace and secure progress.",1,test
2,"sid has made valiant efforts, unemployment is rising, Social Security Net People Response Covid-19 has limited capacity resources.",1,test
0,"Even if, at the end of the year, IMF programs provide temporary relief, without delaying debt repayment, debt restructuring, debt restructuring, achieving certain growth targets for sustainable development goals, expanding debt reserves. Outcome of the loan paid.",1,test
0,"Topic The 75th General Assembly invites us to come together in the framework of the future needs of the member states. Against the background of difficult years, the next stage of the country's construction begins, which is the last stage of the independent month. The experience of sharing hope to help the world learn about the current crisis, support peace and development. The emergence of covid-19, a continuous global recovery of a single nation, is aimed at changing the direction of growth that preserves green nature.",1,test
1,"Current pandem stress scale consequence - loss of impact on life on health mani peopl - careful focus must seek solute people, the particular risk of vulner affects the outcome of the pandem leaves an impact on health , well the average life.",1,test
0,"unity nation play pivot leading role oversee the political transit process yemen, ongo sinc 2011. accord gulf initi implementation mechanism, start of transit period. The nation ruled since the president-elect took place. Conferring the dialogu nation celebrated the participation strata of Yemeni society. new draft constitutive of Yemeni agreement on dialogue. Suppose the Yemeni referendum subject adopts allowing elected retained line new constitution. However, the Houthis' coup disrupted the war-sparked transit process among the people of Yemen.",1,test
1,Peaceful outcomes include a police force that is resilient against terrorism and extremism. national efforts to curb the threat of interns.,1,test
2,"warn stem reality. Conflicts in Yemen, Syria, Libya, and Iraq caused an uproar among Arab states, sparking a state of conflict. caused a brutal war. situation, the company reminded the post office of the region's involvement in the Arab region, asked for full sovereignty, full rule including industry standards.",1,test
2,"Finally, the proposal for the permanent establishment of the United Nations in Afghanistan addresses the long-standing concerns of the Afghan people.",1,test
0,"Reference, chase vaccine multilayer critique confirms that the universal uniform entry covid-19 vaccine, Maximis global health impact event vaccine. Singapore Switzerland land nd thirteen psychic partner friend Covid 19 vaccine works on global access access facility. Kovacs, short. Covex Easy Reduce Risk facilitates equity access to vaccine countries.",1,test
2,"First of all, let me rule on behalf of the people of the Solomon Islands, to offer my sincere condolences for the loss of one person. Stand up in all the sad moments",1,test
1,countri makes a real breakthrough global address left by others left behind.,1,test
0,"Bray also defeats Minak's global terror efforts to make the brave Armor Fork Caliber Amisom Internet Partner a safer place in the world. Continued support of credible government efforts supports domestic partners, Somalia contributes to KUWID-19 Positive multilateral efforts make the world better, equal space is needed for all.",1,test
1,"compact requires a new design, improves the existence of the financial instrument guid sid economi current crisis, creates a response system maintains gains, strengthens the climate change resili achieved, maintains development.",1,test
2,"Global unrest and if it draws us in to separate ourselves in a positive way, the covid-19 crisi creates an unparalleled connection between countries. crisi kuzi reminds us of unity, a state of disrespect, a planet soon. a historian meditating on focu must be able to transform the profound learning learned so, meditate on the nature of the future. therefore, when the opportunity arises to ask a big question, make a firm decision to act in unity.",1,test
0,"schedule theme chosen session: ""the future need, unity nation needed: reaffirm collect commit multilater - confront covid-19 effect multilater action"". theme give member state opportune construction contribute work generation assembly. covid-19 pandemic likely a difficult challenge historical unity nations. sure, violent blow countri endur - still endur - long time. a forgotten one. San Marino under countri sever affect pandemic. virus causes death in country last month, cause celebrations. San Marino remains a country with the highest infection rate in the world, with dramatic consequences for the community.",1,test
2,"Third, rebuild, import work should continue.",1,test
1,"Reciprocal specific believ passage would provide a solid basic launch, a serious and in-depth dialogue that would affect the stability of the strategy. would aim to achieve comprehensive arrangements, to shape a solid-based internal security architecture would build a field line of previous experience existed futur politico-militari technolog realia.",1,test
0,Statement confirms the entirety. Socio-economically sustainable compromises in the region without proactive debt suspensions restructuring final debt relief.,1,test
0,"Eliminating menac terror requires a clear perception of the root cause causes terrorism, a common global approach to ultimate terrorism.",1,test
1,"covid-19 pandem decim economi aggravated poverty, also shown that we are interlinking the world, must work together to respond that we are faced with challenges today.",1,test
2,"In addition, they must work together to ensure access to essential health car services, particular quality primary care, key achievement of the 2030 agenda, sustain development, specifically sustain development goal 3.",1,test
2,"decides to establish ""green corridors"" region use one, allow fluid transport assistance, without delay administer border crossing points.",1,test
1,"talk repeatedly, count them all, you must achieve an equal restoration of priority innovation, science, health, well-being, opportunity for the living environment in the country.",1,test
2,Today the celebrant wishes to celebrate the anniversary for the first time.,1,test
1,"Part of multilateral disarmament diplomacy, Sweden - with 15 non-nuclear weapon states - pursues Stockholm's follow-up to the start of nuclear disarmament, the goal of contributing to the success of the NPT Review Conference.",1,test
1,"Democratic Society, People's Center of Thailand. The agenda of the people is an important social synergy that helps to develop the integration sector of the country. Cooper generos thai peopl The time crisis, the escalation of the impact took control of the situation to a minimum. The warning, thanks to the World Health Organization, a country in Thailand responds to the covid-19 jet. however, the deteriorating social situation in the sector warns of constant vigilance to prevent a second epidemic.",1,test
1,"Howev worries lack of progress Security Council Security Council. Samoa is still convincing that it mirrors the Security Council and integrates it today. Permanently increase non-permanent package Modify the package section, the time of movement of the base text negotiations.",1,test
1,"pandem expos vulner Today's world highlights the nation-wide global divide efforts, high-level inequality, inequality, the climate of anger and the ever-changing age of the elderly, poor communities, women girls, undermining social cohesion.",1,test
2,"“the general debate of the revised format year perfect illustration, needed, commotion in the world caused by covid-19 pandemic, unfortunate ongoing anger. invis ruthless enemy causes enormous human damage, also profound impact aspect economy social life, put nation global response capability test.",1,test
0,"The epidemic is capable of conditioning the important elements of the feeling, the effect being resilient.",1,test
2,"Fear makes people in seiz uneasy, the health system undermines socio-economic structure, is shaken overall, and loses one million jobs. The country was confirmed in the first proceeding on March 21. The first state emergency decree, citizen alreadi, took action.",1,test
1,"Covid-19 epidemic era means declining energy prices preferably accelerator effort diversified economy targets. Respect, Allocation Resource Incrica Agriculture Tourism sector identification requires resilience area incentives, policies, programs public-private partnership. In addition, Engand Invest Agriculture inevitable lead reduction demands certain imported food, maintains limits Financial resource achieves food-secure nation. Women continue to promote agribusiness, agri-tourism, the fact that women play a role, so that the family needs proper nutrition.",1,test
2,"Including a rethinking role on economic institutions such as Breton-Woods. The economic model promotes subsistence, developing the economy locally. The appeal will renew",1,test
0,"Digit Technologies Central Almost Every Aspect Response Pandom Pre-Active SDGs. Develop use digit technologies, including Artificial Intelligence and base ethic principles, to be human-centered. The protection of human rights, democracy, good governance and the rule of account law should be encouraged. You need universal political commit digit security. Un Galvan Digit Cooper Global Level Contribute Mobile Actor Open, Secure Fair Access Digit Infrastructure.",1,test
2,"""Tensions of concern surround the great Renaissance Dam Ethiopia, Chadkor Brotherly governs Egypt, and the Ethiopian Sudan-Continue Priority Dialogue Order reaches the Negoshi Salt Age African Union.",1,test
1,"Sudan continues to support active cooperation, political security County African continent, SPC Country Region, Active Membership Region Organ African Union, Igad, Intern Great Lake Region, Sahel Sahara. On the occasion, I would like to appreciate the great positive role played by the African Union drama Coronavirus Pandem Africa.",1,test
2,"call trainee communication - special advice of secur - assumption legal answer oblig israel lift sieg gaza strip, put peac process back track credibl negotiating base intern decisive force, solving problems with the final status, end of occupation within a certain period of time establishing an independent Palestinian state within 1967, east capital of Jerusalem, end of Israel occupying Arab territories.",1,test
1,"The military-political conflict continues in the central African republic, the eastern democratic province of republic congo, south sudan, libya, sahel, new terrorist groups, al chebab action terrorist groups in east east africa boko haram in central west africa.",1,test
2,"Given the current situation, the single resource financing product sector is back, the need for service biosafety brings an urgent epidemiological nature disease.",1,test
2,"govern also imposes the need to engage educational levels, to ensure the full reality of man, to provide citizens with equal opportunities.",1,test
2,5. the deliveryi comprehens financi technic help countri apprentice development develop lower country monitor development conserves ice water from sources.,1,test
2,Global Crisis Kovid-19 also dissociates gender inequality.,1,test
2,"The world of the coronavirus pandemic has completely changed, resulting in a new reality. initially expected to affect developing countries. however, the significant impact of the pandemic is well-developed by the state. specify the boundaries of recognition. mutual support is a joint effort to overcome the pandemic.",1,test
0,"Fifty Fifty Anniversary Resolution of the Year 2065 xx, First Accepting the Organic Question of the Molvina Islands, Call the Argentine Unit Empire End the Negotiation Order Final Halal Sovereignty Dispute.",1,test
2,"The Covid-19 epidemic does not match the existing threat in the current world to human health safety. Submerging health sectors, disrupting global trade food supply chains, crushing the travel leisure industry disrupts basic livelihoods around the world. Alarmingly Pandem Intensified Vulner Small Economy makes us victims of exogenous shocks. Further, Covid-19 lending backwards benefits, society achieves towards achieving sustainable development goals sdg goals.",1,test
0,"local authorities will continue to promote equal respect, minimizing the destruction of weapons.",1,test
2,"1945, a nation signifies the devastation of a devastating war. Organ took the lead in challenging the challenges of the column industry that made development meaning a region that brought human rights, poverti eradication, democracy, fighting climate change to promote development, and provided arm tension protection. thanks to multilateralism, a country usually abl reach tradit diplomacy not. at least for now, the pandem has revealed a weak state, a nation that continues to face antidot attacks. in case, it would be interesting to highlight the role of the carri sector, especi general secretary, in the current weak state of the situation which, unfortunately, sharing the common situation precedes the founding of member states.",1,test
1,"second, common institutions must be rebuilt. immediately, need help lost family members, lost livelihood educ interrupted. Also take into account that the Covid-19 Expos case will be aggravated. need to build just societies.",1,test
1,digit sector romania amount 6 percent gdp import drivers growth innovation. See section Opportun of each key economic development component. Romania's goal of digital transformation is to make the countries less bureaucratic and resilient and to attract foreign investment. also potenti turn romania region innov hub.,1,test
0,"Allow a closing public assembly session. The time of the critic may come, and find the face of the most dangerous epidemic affecting the ways of terror of the modern world. Mane lives tragic lost Mane continuing the impact of the oni attack. It may take time to pause and reflect, viru chang live look way cooperate with all influences.",1,test
2,"The oundi effect of Crisis Trigger Covid-19 Daily Living Gem Families, County Exception. Sensitive response to fellow citizen-led government Duty Governor Andorra review route map envisages assembly, develops action plan.",1,test
0,"The multi-pronged approach that forces us to study online The battle for victory is a good defense against future global threats, and the pursuit of results means support for small vulnerable countries.",1,test
0,"situat continuously without a suitable responsible internship community, states of mani, like my, impossible payment there debt qualifies new loans.",1,test
2,"The security of Central Asia is directly dependent on the situation in Afghanistan. Turkmenistan's position remains unchanged. alternative negotiation process. The experience of previou showed that the perspective of the coercive approach failed to reach an agreement. Afghanistan's neutral immediate neighbor, the state, organizes a policy of readiness, establishes a peace dialogue, and regulates Afghanistan in the interests of politics.",1,test
0,call common intern make serious urgent commit impending end catastrophe surround fso safer oil. Houthi militia refus concession unit access nation oil tanker repair maintenance.,1,test
2,"In conclusion, I would like to emphasize one more point: Continue the unrest around the world to diversify, escalate conflict violence, increase the modern threat of environmental catastrophe Global problem Misery increases poverty.",1,test
2,"building a scientific clinic, industry experienced doctor russia promptli develop a testing system with drugs that detect coronavirus treatment, well record the world's first vaccine, ""sputnik-v.""",1,test
2,pandem taught us an urgent lesson: drivers of longer ignorance.,1,test
0,"Assessing the way forward Achieving agreement Maintaining the 2030 development goal amid the global covid-19 pandemic, must also re-examine the future. covid-19 devast lesson as strong as possible wake-up call needs global cooperation, effect association signature multilater commitment confront together. covid-19 recognizes borders, nationality, gender, economy, status, nation, individuals, equal victims. therefore, unifi solut must find to protect all humans.",1,test
2,"order continuous active participation create stable security, albania present candidate elects non-staff member securium board, term 2022-2023.",1,test
1,"Common Acceptance Multi-Late Diplomacy supports the respect of the three pillars of advanced diplomacy: the maintenance of development, the securing of human rights, the reciprocal link of mutual strengthening, and the unit of the Charter with specific obligations.",1,test
1,"Also hope, because, forever, developed valuable solidarity, honestly recognizing health professionals, promoting the common interest of the civilian response public, raising environmental awareness.",1,test
0,"Paypal expresses its heartfelt thanks to the countries on behalf of El Salvador, helping private enterprise volunteers around the world. It enables us to save thousands of lives, epidemics and the future. Save Every Life Save Together Repress General - Thousands of Future Live Story Preserve Thanks for the latest action. Thank God give us a chance for everyone to help us.",1,test
2,"force us internal commun embrac multilater effect way win battle best defend future global threats, continuous search effect average support small vulnerable countries.",1,test
2,"Success depends on strengthening institutions, national and international, including business scholars, innovators, and innovators. Funding question. Suppose the human value of the citizen govern investment institutions, they must be accountable.",1,test
0,"""The General Meetings will review the approval, respectively, develop a repository of the national system of the unit 2016 2018, respectively, the system will be strategic, accountable, transparent, joint, effective, results-oriented. The repositories need unity for approval, support for development on the 2030 agenda, support for the efforts of countries. With the approval of the Secretary-General, the reform was carried out with the approval of the member states. Uganda operates in the 77 g-77 group. China will provide a policy review to interpret the next cycle in the fourth phase, while supporting countries will support the jurisdictions on the 2030 agenda for the next four years.",1,test
0,"violates the sovereignty of Iraq, use bargain chip europe housing, filed the force forc energi resourc mediterranean. the current turkish regime became rogu illegal regime of internal law. police actions, which threaten to ensure the stability of the entire region, must be stopped.",1,test
2,"year mark fifty-fifth anniversari resolute 2065 xx, first say goodbye organ question malvina islands, call argentina unity kingdom keep negoti order achieve peace definite sovereign dispute.",1,test
0,The severity of the current pandemic still carries an equal risk in gender-based violence. Affects girls' access to disproportionate health services. The right to a strong fund sexual reproductive health should be a priority.,1,test
2,"believ multilater allows us to overcome major global challenges. indeed, crises' health caused by covid-19 pandem ravag worldwide showed us working together to help reduce global warming.",1,test
0,unplinch commit peac result perceived by the police with zero tolerance for terrorist violent extremism. The nation's effort complemented the trainee Bonder curb threat.,1,test
1,"Prevent Prevalent Diseases Today, Increase Massive Efforts, Necessary Medical Equipment End Time Underout Effect Major Cooper World Health Organization, Country Development Partners.",1,test
2,"we, an institution, chang cultivate it. convinces better respond to joint action of global challenge.",1,test
1,express hope talk serv bring peac stabil long-suff land afghanistan.,1,test
1,"Essenti stronger multilater I want to build just, peaceful societies, young people live with dignity, opportunistic women men, protected vulnerable minor group.",1,test
0,75th Anniversary Unit A rare dangerous planet at the moment of national fall. covid pandem claims millions of unexpected difficulties with nearly a million live pushes. Time doubts hesitation. Priority is given to the tool meet test. Mark the import anniversary.,1,test
2,Goal Achieve Development Achieve Country Mobile Development Fund Investment Assistance Use the Interest of African Investors The African continent can produce exports for good consumption local consumption.,1,test
0,Suspicion of eliminating other actions may be to blame. The joint declaration is adopted by the Ministry of Environment.,1,test
0,"celeb 75th anniversari unit nation midst global pandem - pandem place enorm pressur society, commun families. I would like to express my deepest lost condolences.",1,test
0,"will -focu today is challenging climate change climate. must have a good state-of-the-art interactive technology where minimizing potential impact. covid-19 acceler delivers artificial intelligence, robotics, digital payments, e-government services, remote services.",1,test
2,"In particular the efforts of the appreciation organization include the private sector of civil society, part of the economic solution, creating a social environment, including the need for sustainable development in the community.",1,test
2,"Concern fears respect flare-up violent Mozambican province Cabo delgado, call more internal community involved fight tragic terrorist attack Mozambique region.",1,test
0,"remember the concessionaire has been seeking peace for five years. commit a month ago - alongside brother coalit support yemeni legitimacy, kingdom ruled saudi arabia - establish unilater ceasefire support effort mr. Martin Griffith understands that the ceasefire would allow the resumption of the political process. however, the effort regrets the failure of the obstinaci Houthi terrorist militia sponsoring the Iranian regime. even the worst militias took timely mobile attacks on the governor's towns, causing massacres among civilians in the Yemen region.",1,test
2,suppli medic call equip drug vaccine to develop efforts made in the release contest.,1,test
2,"need unity nation 4.0, basic value intact vision incorporate immense technological change, make people, democrats, socially inclusive.",1,test
2,"The countries celebrating the 75th anniversary of the unit, need a strong solution to ensure that one remains. Ensure equal participation of every individual, respect gender bias, Reality 2030 Agenda.",1,test
0,"Support for the domestic community, including individual representatives of the country, the private sector, the domestic academic community, civil society, the stability of the main public debt.",1,test
0,"nuclear deterrence, in particular, create etho fear base threat mutual annihilation way, end poison relationship people obstruct dialogue. import support principle internal legal instrument nuclear disarmament, nonprolifer prohibition. holi see trust outcom review confer parti non-proliferation treaty nuclear weapon npt result concrete action agreement joint intention ""achieve the nuclear arms race as soon as possible cessat undertake effect measure direct nuclear disarmament"".",1,test
1,The Covid-19 epidemic also threatens human rights and increases existing vulnerabilities. It must be ensured that it includes a human rights approach.,1,test
1,"Sudan's current experience exacerbates challengerreadi's face, except in situations due to the effects of unprecedented heavy rain floods. The Flooding of the Nile caused serious losses throughout the area adjacent to it. Great damage also causes floods due to rain, causing vast areas. In honor of you, I would like to pay the tribute friendli brotherli countri demonstr solidar provid gener support respons catastrophe.",1,test
0,"turn topic headline many conversations many important worldwide coordinated Covid-19 responses we can infect, hopefully, sympathetic.",1,test
0,"respect, san marino welcom strateg prepared reaction plan addresses immediate health needs, product who, global humanitarian reaction plan eas impact 63 highli vulner countries, un covid-19 respons recoveri fund, socioeconom respons recoveryi countries with lower middle income. The Republic of San Marino supports the United Nations Secretary-General's call for a global ceasefire, 23rd edition. Countries also join the secretaries-general’s global call for an emphasis on ending violent women everywhere, including at home.",1,test
2,"convinc cooper unit nation region Organ essenti Instrument consolid secur development world. Always concerned about the many unresolved conflicts in the Black Sea region, affecting the stable Cooper district. Includes continu promot cooper unit nation variou Organ region, current chairman of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation.",1,test
1,kosova establishes a solid constitutive legal framework on condition of unprecedented protection of the law of minor cultural heritage. fulli line exce often acqui European term protection of human rights.,1,test
0,"Small island developing states, including Tonga, contribute global emissions of one percent greenhous ga, unfortunately having a severe climate injustice. result, the island of the pacif continued imperil mani tropic cyclone unprecedented magnitude destroyed nature. recent one tropical cyclone harold april year creates havoc four pacif island nations, namely, fiji, solomon islands, vanuatu, country, tonga. covid-19 burst grappl strain effect.",1,test
1,"Order to share road travel experience Implement sdgs, Achievements, Lessons Learned New Challenges, Burundi UN Volunteer Review 2020. Convince yourself that, ordering sdgs, 2015 adoption become a reality, extra commitment, initiative, effort and , All, needs resources.",1,test
0,"To avoid flattening the curve pandem global economic crisis must react collectively, spirit uniti solidarity.",1,test
2,"Social distance, use of masks, hygiene measures, Danny Viru opportunistic moves between us.",1,test
2,"covid-19 narrow limit neg. impact on the global economy. Solomon Island exception, difficult time to go, however, we start resetting the stimulus package to stimulate the economy. Let the partner thank you for supporting the business initiative.",1,test
0,"“At a time when the world faces the coronavirus and the ongoing terrorism rages in Africa, particularly the Lake Chad Basin-Sahel-Saharan region, innocent victim Delle Bassi claims a dangerous compromise that advances the country’s effort.",1,test
1,"covid-19 pandemic time reminds us of interconnectedness. world teeters on the brink of uncertainty, needs 'nation unity one'. global solidar unifi response best armor pandem socioeconomic impact people face. recognize ongo support un develop partner continuous assist effort mitigate impact pandemic. hope that success develops a vaccine that is equal to an even distribution. let's spread some kind of faster virus, hate, fear of misinformation.",1,test
2,"Ordering a flat curve pandemic averts the global economic crisis, must react together, spiritual unity.",1,test
2,"In order to strengthen the adaptation of the reduction, the Climate Development Program manages the climate change. The work of civil society, academia, trainee partners, accelerating the implementation of the first treaty.",1,test
1,"today, year commemoring 75th anniversari unity nations, andorra wants to add voic organ of support representative multilateralism esenc, recent year manag preserve initi spirit evolv time. Now, always, it must appeal to recognize the spiritual vision of the founders, to overcome obstacles, terrible war, and to differ of opinion to preserve humanity.",1,test
1,"covid-19 closing the border negative impact global economy. Except for the island of Solomon, passes a difficult period, however, launches an economic stimulus package to restart the impulse economy. Let me thank the partner who supports the economic initiative.",1,test
0,"Over the past 75 years, the single nation member state has overcome ruthless global challenges. The year, the world is facing a health crisis. In fact, the biggest challenge will be testing the lemons to prepare the multilateral member state of the trust to continue the threat of a solution overcom.",1,test
1,"The general debate for the theme year is timely. Commit Multi-Rator Face Sharencovid 19 Pandemic, ""Future Desire, Need for Unit State"" needs to be reaffirmed.",1,test
2,"to say that revitalis exists the configuration a, despite the past lesson of epidemic viruses, does not adequately respond to the devastating consequences of covid-19.",1,test
0,"why, start pandemic, argentina primary focus protect live care vulnerable, implement serious measures emerg prevent collapse of health system mitigate immediate impact of pandemic.",1,test
0,"""The Highly Relieved Theme Session, 'Future Wanted, Unit Country Needs: Repeat Comet Multilator-Covid-19 Facing Multilator Action', Fully Underline Import Intern Cooper Multilator Irreplock Average Address Change, Major General Challenge, Some of the name.",1,test
0,"success depends on the strengthening of institutions, the international nation, including labor scientists, innovators, creators. funding questions. human position with human value govern invest institutions, must be accountable.",1,test
0,"human rights, establishing internal agreement instrument principle mandatory protection of human rights, lawful, good government, emphasizes vulnerability group children, elderly people, handicaps, low-wage earners, good migrants. Therefore, the responses remain committed to ensuring progress in implementation. thailand, current implement 4th nation human rights plan results-ori mentality. also proud of thailand first country asia to adopt national action plan busi human rights, implement since 2019",1,test
0,"coronaviru continues to spread across the world, killing hundreds more, bringing millions, killing thousands. Furthermore, covid-19 introduces widespread music in the future. The pandem health crisis, as well as the social security crisis, the inter-communal crisis, coronaviru assail commun around the world have caused a global economy whose effects have long been undetectable. Emotional deprivation interrupts social activity with negative effects, including on citizens, ethnic minorities, people with disabilities, and girls. Inadequate health systems protect the reproductive system degrad environmental degrad weather problems: pandem shows us the world is weak. a nation facing health problems, expanding life-saving humanitarian assistance has established a tool for economic social justice.",1,test
1,"last month, one hundred Afghan dead injured, entire house livelihoods destroyed, massive flood water rip provinc parwan 13 provinces. two years earlier, extreme - drought - led our cross-country wheat shortage to boost livelihoods.",1,test
0,"Terrorist extremist group poses a major challenge to the country's security, with various parts of the country at serious risk.",1,test
0,"ethnic Armenian carri cleansing region Azerbaijani popul. the Azerbaijani people expelled the closed territories. Armenia commits war crimes against Azerbaijani civilians. Armenia has established criminal, small-scale regional terrorists hiding hidden lands.",1,test
1,"also response internal commun stop bloodshed yemen, continuous five years, stop humanitarian crisis.",1,test
0,"development, there are ten years to accelerate action to maintain the SDG 2030 development goal. However, covid-19 pandem a key factor is delaying achievement. must, therefore, work harder, cooper closer to promote develop the center of people way. must also prioritize the stakeholder who emphasizes technological development.",1,test
1,"Unity of nations, within the current world context, which represent reality as a whole in different ways, are looking for a basic facility, reflect within the internal structure characteristics of geopolitics that create order today, enable organs to maintain a balance of global interests.",1,test
1,"global health problem paralyz momentum built recovery global economy, economic crisis in early 2008, alreadi send an incentive signal recovery special developing countries, the case of Angola.",1,test
0,"In a similar context, countries are concerned about the Turkish military intervention in Libya, the intervention of part of the alarm in Arab affairs, the escalation of the humanitarian crisis, efforts to reach peaceful solutions, and the instability of the entire region. Therefore, the immediate cessation of the second call of the countries calls on the participants in the political process to libya. libya conflict, the security of countries helps to achieve stability.",1,test
0,"Reconsidering the role of economic financial institutions, like Breton Woods, must respond quickly to grow inequitably super-rich permanent poor. the economic model encourages subsidiarity, supports the economy develops the local level invests education infrastructure benefits local communities, lays the foundations for economic success also renews a larger community. renew the call",1,test
1,"Content, chasing a critic of multiple vaccines allows access to the global covid-19 vaccine, highlighting the universal vaccine. Singapor Switzerland operates thirteen people with a friendly covid 19 hospitals access worldwide. covax, short. covax facil seeks to reduce the risk of access to countries with vaccines.",1,test
0,"Five years ago, the Climate Change Agreement was signed. Implementing a framework for slowing global warming gives the economy time to adapt to new technologies.",1,test
1,unusu gathers today to prove that the world of ongocovid-19 Pandemchan knows it. Online Form Evid Adaptation Act.,1,test
1,"The difference of conflict, time misunderstands do not even trust colleagues, there is a strong treatment of advanced construction, single innovations, first-hand control. Includes prohibition of chemical, biological toxic weapons.",1,test
0,"Rural areas, especially small to medium enterprise primarily engaged commerce industries developed bank Solomon Islands also aims to develop a developed financial services target.",1,test
0,"adopt constitut declare on August 17, 2019 constitute second stage victori revolution, make peac end the war priority transit government. launch of the basi upon juba process. Simpli negotiated two parts of war, passed, rather process dialogu partner revolut order they achieved peace with war, or address the root cause of conflict. Signature of the juba peac agreement on October 3.",1,test
0,"The presidential republic, a strictly coordinated government, has drawn up a plan to restore the economy under the influence of Covid-19, the central people, the reactive economy, in the short and medium term. means termination of employment.",1,test
1,"The economic, trade, financial embargo imposing cuba mani may have been uninterrupted years ago. This is because the lifting of the Sao Tome and Printer Reiter call sanctions will allow Cuba to develop economically without economic restrictions, unfair sanctions, and the advantage of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries.",1,test
0,"coronaviru pandemic significant negative impact, direct global economic courses seriously undermine the efforts of the global community to achieve development objectives. context, we expect the intensification of cooperation in order to restore economic trade relations. today the indispensable platform of creating the global economy holds the trajectory of growth. opinion, energy, transport, industrial trade become the main areas.",1,test
2,"Order Address Covid-19 Pandemic, Seneg Start Econom Social Resili Program Fund Amount 1,000 Billion CFA Francs, 1.6 Billion US Dollars.",1,test
1,"The Manifesto ""Perfect Storm"" will undoubtedly implement the Limit Progress 2030 Agenda, reaching the goal of sustainable development within the Geopardis Able Agri timeframe. All in all, the absolute horrific toll million family worldwide has already claimed millions of lives.",1,test
1,Thank you. The Kingdom of Eswatini is adopting more parental politics to promote gender equality. femal represents decision making within the region.,1,test
1,"You need to break the current climate mistrust. Present, with eros pluralism, seriou light develop a new form of military technology, lethal autonomous weapons system law does not change natural warfare, separation of human agency.",1,test
0,"Marin Environmental Resources Be critical of the livelihoods of the people of Trinidad Tobago, sustain development. Government Ocean Continuous Priority. Unfortunately, the result of the global pandemic, Fourth Session Intergovernment Intern Legal Bind Instrument Unit Nation Convent Law Sea Conserve Sustain Use Marin Biolog Divers Area Beyond Nation Jurisdiction, Postponed. Given the critical forum talks, Trinidad Tobago remains hopeful that will resume soon, the completion of success will benefit mankind.",1,test
0,"warn tribe realiti experience. tension yemen, syria, libya, iraq state relationship blatantly meddle arab affair made state instigate strife discord, histor delus restor domin coloni rule arab region horn africa. result in brutal wars. context, reconsider firm position reject region arab affairs, request full respect for sovereignty, consist entirely of internal law internal norms.",1,test
2,"they must keep a pandemic at bay, they must also closely monitor the joint struggle of cooperators within the internal community.",1,test
1,"Climate change, the practice of the International Consortium of Cross-Agreement Imports creates climate change. Must lose sight of the goal to save future generations of the planet. Covid-19 shows an unbalanced relationship-a planetary environment of health surrounds us. Biodegradable wildlife does not respect the existence of human health. Countries regulate long-term climate goals for this recovery effort.",1,test
0,The world is losing its balance.,1,test
2,"Conclusion, Introduction Economic Policy Policy Reform Stimulate Rapid Track Transition Rule Sectors. Action Goal Create Enabled Environment Private Sector Mask Goal 8, i.e., good work economic growth.",1,test
2,"The socioeconomic impact Pandem felt that autumn would come. Recovering the long cost process, vulnerable. Global solidarity, the constant response to the critique of the effective intercontinental politics makes the response better.",1,test
0,"continue to support the effort of the world health organization formulate respons covid-19 to facilitate the development of a vaccine. postpandemic, may need to improve the review process, now immediately focus on the pandemic.",1,test
2,"Consider the main stability of the political situation, the improvement of the social economy in Afghanistan, the success of the global economy.",1,test
0,Slovenia shared a great loss of biodiversity an urgent global challenge.,1,test
0,"first everi teacher child mother father, family, universal declare human right describe ""group natural foundation unity society"". Often, families who are victims of colonial ideology weaken the end product, especially vulnerable members, young and old, feel like orphans without roots. the breakdown of families reflects the social fragment that hinders the effort to confront common enemies. Reassess the time to re-commit to achieving the goals.",1,test
1,"Progress is needed in gem areas. Already know want to go, always get the complicated part. Wanted Recognition of Work Carry Secretary General Reform Develop System, Contribute State Made Resolute Proposal Improvement. However, without wasting time, must build knowledge process work experts seek efficiency response committed charter result peace security, achieve right development.",1,test
2,Also use Transform Power Digit Prepper Economic Prescript Survive Crisis.,1,test
0,"Hopefully, because, ever seen, sympathetic to the precious connection, honestly known healthcare professional, sensitive civic response likes the common good of the people, improving ecological awareness.",1,test
2,Striving for recovery predisposes us to meet future needs. Reviving economic activity increases environmental sustainability.,1,test
1,"Resolve the crisis, especially in the Arab region, requir takes the position of unifi intern. Violet Sovereignty refuses to interfere with the intern's problems. Posist Seek Unlead Polit Salt Address Threat Pose Terrorist Group Houthi, Desh, Al Qaeda Muslim Brotherhood. Context, unit Arab Emile Writer Support Secretary-General's appeal Global ceasefire.",1,test
0,"context, would also like to recall an extraordinary historical nation of the nobel peac laureate, former secretary-general dag hammarskjold, whose 115th anniversary marked the memorial year. consider a tireless inspiration of promoting the concept of preventing diplomacy. said hammarskjold, die crisi management hot mission, trust of mutual respect dialogue sincere negotiations between potential parties to the conflict at an early stage can prevent the outbreak of war.",1,test
1,"The SARS-Cove-2 epidemic creates incredible conditions for us. The world suddenly announced Covid-19 as the first victim in a stagnant week: schools, factories, offices, roads, stadiums, etc. felt that fighting the silence order was inevitable but also allowed us to see that the world would never happen again.",1,test
1,"The next step would be to remove the unsupported military rule, restore state control, and, ultimately, restore the Ukrainian Territorier to the interior.",1,test
1,"People work together with the worst effects of the Somalia, Kovid-19 epidemic. As you rule the world, give priority to health and save lives. Direct medical provisions update relevant, public health information, protecting popularity as much as possible. The cases of Kovid-19, the epidemic in the early stages in a hurry, the declining stable result the rapid action of the government.",1,test
0,"to count the total population, must be able to create new, scientific, health, welfare, life opportunities around the community.",1,test
2,"Democratic Society, Thailand Place Center. POPL helps vital social coordination drive the nation’s agenda, a country of unified territory. Cooper Genros Thai People's Time Crisis, impact outbreak minimal situation brought control. Note, thanks to the World Health Organization Thailand recognizes a Country Provide Effect Response Covid-19. However, the public sector of the constantly reminding sector remains vigilant to prevent another outbreak.",1,test
2,"The Covid-19 Epidemic Act proves coordination, the response share occurs effectively which achieves a satisfactory result.",1,test
2,"The Mani Situate should be geared towards issues such as gender equality, attendance of young children, protection of the disabilities of the elderly and non-discriminated persons. Reality present, uncertain future experience The past trajectory shows that we need to be taught a worthwhile investment effort. Success Society Base Growth Human Capital Education Training.",1,test
0,Iran's nuclear program supports internal law and diplomatic dialogue.,1,test
0,"Term Economy Stimulation, Government Launch Program, Anim Impact Sector Economy $ 7.25 million Line Credit Micro, SMEs Promote Wage Subsidies, Promote Employment Retention, $ 5 Million Special Line Credit Tourism Provide interested parties. It will also launch the remaining five pillars of the economy recovery strategy. That is, it supports business recovery, creates business climate growth, improves governance efficiency, strengthens agriculture in the product sector, and grows emerging economies.",1,test
1,"""Climate change is still one of the biggest challenges of all time. Consider the ongoing climate-catastrophe around the world as a result of the loss of property. Uganda, for example, prolong long droughts, melt the highest mountain, psychedelic mountains, floods, irregular landslides.Recent experimental effect increases rainfall levels, main body water level causes floods in Continuous governance Climate investment Adaptation Reduction measures include increasing access to clean energy to increase production, increasing forest wetland cover, contributing determinants of the nation's ambitious line.Investment can stop us, reverse the reversal of the environment Affect climate change, well improve natural resources with improved economic growth.",1,test
0,"Covid-19 pandemic accelerators government's thrust towards converting public sector into numbers. Adjust To The New Normal, Quickly Adapt Utilities Remote Platform Conduct In-Person Meetings Instead Of Settled In. Optimist Greater Reliance Digit Platform Result Opportunity Young People Field Related Cyber ​​Technology Cyber ​​Security.",1,test
0,"São Tomé & Princip prepared graduation category middle income country December 2024, proud fact, reflects recognizing effort country made progress achievement key area sustaining development.",1,test
2,"first, modern suppli chain complex. extremely difficult complete onhor product key item sinc materi expert is otherwise always a multi-step process required. mani country experienc disrupt flow essential good lockdowns. suppli chain base “just-in-time” efficient review base “just-in-case”.",1,test
2,"In this way, celebrating an upcoming milestone, the 100th anniversary, would achieve a literacy rate of 100 percent, allow everyone to know the relevant skills that mean life.",1,test
0,"The ""Chad"" Nation Development Plan, held on the Firmly Support Donor Round Table 2017, saw expected results due to low levels of anticipated resources. Therefore, order support governance efforts Promoting sustainable development, honor pledge financial efforts critical Chad, current Preparation Second Nation Development Plan.",1,test
2,"Hard Over-Importance Open, Rules-Boss Multilator Trade System Founded Global Recovery. The system allows for better service mutual benefit avenues for country trade. Rice Hunter Million People Poverty. After Kovid-19, improve the system strengthening process. There is a need to rebuild a secure and reliable transport network.",1,test
2,"compact design of new requirements, expanded exist financial instrument guiding sid economy current crisis, establishing feedback system save profits, strengthen sustainable climate change achieve sustainable development achievement.",1,test
2,year 2020 remind the massive terrain to push behind the race umbrella racism # black black movements.,1,test
0,"The Arab crisis, in particular, requires a position on the unified Internet. rejection of interference in the internal affairs of the violated sovereign state. Look for positives, the key address is threatened by the terrorist Hussein group, Daesh, Al-Qaeda Muslim Brotherhood. In this context, the United Arab Emirates supports the Secretary-General's call for a global ceasefire.",1,test
2,"covid-19 greatly disrupts economies and societies around the world. Indeed, covid-19 re-outlined in the usual way and puts us in a ""new normal"". Therefore, you need to think about the outsid box, and the outsid box also needs to work. UN member states need to work together to build better economies, including:",1,test
1,Goal Achieve Development Achieve Country Mobile Development Fund Investment Assistance Use the Interest of African Investors The African continent can produce exports for good consumption local consumption.,1,test
0,"Continuing to face the problem of the world facing climate change, deteriorating health of the planet we must remember coraviru the title of collecting the work of everi one us. An old African proverb says ""If you wish, go alone. May we go far, we go together. The time we act gather address the need to include all vulnerable among us! Together we go away.""",1,test
2,"along with infectious diseases, draw a challenge to disproving the misconceptions surrounding infectious diseases. spread ""infodemic"" poses a health risk, increasing the risk of conflict, violence, extreme human violence. covid-19 crisi demonstrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrYYiche show that it has free space, trust, confidence, truth, clear science. state, local groups, media professionals are involved in the system, the social media system helps people organize “infodemic”. county imports large import attacks. the reason, application 2019, san marino, high level provides threatening advertising. as a result, join a local “infodemic” state statement of covid-19 state-sponsored media response “confirmed” announcement in April.",1,test
2,"cannot fail to acknowledge the devastating effect of the covid-19 child crisis, including unaccompanied young migrant refugees. Violent children, including horrible scourg child abuse pornography, drama has also increased.",1,test
0,"needari countri protection of peace activity make the governing unit realize that, in the midst of the pandemic, one understands the explanation of the rise of criminal prosecution, blocking the border number in Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Syria, Iran brother countri world. reason, should demand the cessation of unilateral coercive measures, the claim of sanctions, the permitting of the exercise of human rights, the right to develop peace. the governance of the state unit must abandon the old criminal practice of the subjugated world order, preserve it, the independent sovereignty of the police. the unitary state - it must be said - the history of the subjects, becomes a serious threat to the world of peace.",1,test
0,"Human Reputation Humanitarian Component Multilator can strengthen bilateral relations, people-to-people exchanges, cultural relations, social education programs, good Cooper sports, science, technology, environmental health protection.",1,test
0,"The spirit of solidarity governs the sincere priority and the epidemic of poverty, one is safe, everyone is safe.",1,test
1,"""The Covid-19 Crisis requires efforts to better understand the general weakness and the time, the overcom global challenge benefits for performance. Confirm the relationship.",1,test
2,"scale current pandemic disaster consequence - loss of impact on human health manipulator - focuses attention should seek authorized people, especially the vulnerable risk affects the outcome of the pandemic affects health, good lifestyle.",1,test
1,"The government of the country implements the rules of the import issuer in the law. efforts, as well as multi-sectoral initiatives related to strengthening the local copyright, strengthening the capacity of the country, legislation related to the performance of the responsibilities of competitive bodies. The process of achieving the law at the state level is the responsibility of state governments at the state level.",1,test
2,"origin ""throwaway culture"" blatant disrespect to human dignity, promote ideology reduce understanding the human person, deny the basic human rights of the universe, aspire to control the absolute power prevalent in today's society. let us name ourselves: attack the human himself.",1,test
0,"samoa’s long-term vision improv qualities life mirror a 2030 agenda, critical roadmap uphold three pillar a. accompl sdg brings us closer to the world we anticipate founding organis 75 years ago, future wants to unite.",1,test
2,"Before the outbreak of Covid-19, young people were already unemployed three times compared to their adult colleagues. pandem push global economy deeper crisis, young gener risk disproportion bear the strongest mass unemployment underprotection.",1,test
2,"Cape Small Island developed state includes the development of external trauma epidemics such as Covid-19, the formation of disasters, climate change.",1,test
0,"I swear in June Excel Mr. Evarist Ndayishimiye, President of the Republic of Burundi, is waiting for the elected President of Burundi. Conclusions Election peace, Tanzania needs domestic trainees to help the new government if it needs economic assistance to develop the citizens of the vast Burundi region.",1,test
0,jibda cooper intern organ region region partner institut elabor two strategic paper new period clear evid success achieve direction.,1,test
1,"First, the result of Covid-19 is to increase the debt of countries with the lowest cost of servicing them. essenti multiilater financi institut provide debt relief. Sewing aids concomani concession fund financs. Measuring adequate financial security of the country's financial climate The current crisis, as well as financing the development of development priorities. It acknowledges the great work that has already been done, however, it is believed that it must be done.",1,test
0,"said the pandemic pandemics of Covid-19 are not yet able to sustain thousands of migrants so cozy host countries, a report of the deterioration of the abandonment of the lack of responsible authors. the fragile system of social protection is obvious, sometimes there are models of the social economy. I wonder again, perhaps indifferently a large amount of dollar, given the management of extravagant recruitment donors who give Venezuelan migrants? money? manages to steal it? believe must definitely reconsider, introduce scientific rigor role unit national agencies, human agencies, gaming processes, unhcr intern body migration iom.",1,test
1,today celebr first anniversari will look for opportunities urg join us - mere alreadi - aim rais awar import reduc food food wastutt action action sustain development.,1,test
0,"wish remember us all, gather efforts to fight the coronavirus, must lose sight of need to address lasting challenge brought climate change. reiterate the government's call to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. furthermore, the state-determined ambition call the contributions. let's stick to science, tell us we're striving to maintain the Earth's temperature at 1.5 degrees Celsius.",1,test
0,"The way detailed solutions work together, import functions UN G20 states, the well-led inter-state organ Integrated Associates also go through tough times as the pandemic impact requires fundamentally new horizons area development.",1,test
2,gebruik tenur promote intern peac secur advoc peac settlement disput inclus dialog.,1,test
1,"The first four of the fifth driver panic culmin - a previously unexplained explosion inequality of continuous stress, if - does not act. Afghanistan's human capital ensures human security, and there are stable people in society.",1,test
2,"It must quickly implement comprehensive reforms, meaning reforms, that begin with the restructuring of the Security Council.",1,test
2,Tunisia welcomes Libya's sister-in-agreement agreement and calls on the international community to work together for the protection of the region's natural resources.,1,test
1,"The extent of the Coronaviru epidemic affects the gem country world. However, serious dangerous damage from an environmental point of view. Unfortunately, the Plenty Territory Map refers to a speech impossible. Therefore, want to touch on the issue, highly relevant Central Asian state nations. Earl Sea Tragedy.",1,test
0,"In the past month, Hundran has killed Afghans, destroyed livelihoods, and flooded 13 provinces in the province of Parwan. Two years ago, terrorism-drought-led to a country-wide wheat shortage for us.",1,test
2,"2019 difficult year albania. struck two power earthquakes, left 50 people dead, billions of US dollars in damage.",1,test
1,"Express Government's grateful unit nations, considering the internal organ of the Member State, providing assistance in developing the country's generation, in particular, implementing the design strategy response pandemic. Thanks to joint efforts, spread Viru border countries, mean the rate of spread mortality of Benin is low.",1,test
2,"also contribute spirit peace stable region, context challenge state face concern insert region find yourself, countri commit process join asean, region block 600 million inhabitants.",1,test
1,selected topic 75th session gener assemble pertin current moment experienc world. Best convince multilaterally how we combine our efforts to reduce the impact Economy Financial Crisis Crisis Covid-19 Pandem Impos World.,1,test
2,"will focus today on presenting a climate change of revolution in specific figures. there should be companies with technological benefits with new figures, while reducing the potential impact. covid-19 acceler deploys artificial intelligence, robotics, digital payments, e-government services, distance learning.",1,test
1,"The Violin Warfare has also evolved, with the Afghan intellect suffering in real time. Living, dying, the fifth wave of global terrorism, the global terrorist network having close ties to international criminal networks, the war creates a completely unfounded peace even challenges.",1,test
2,"The World Trade Organization plays an active role, and the world economy promotes trade and investment. Recent Acquisitions Observation Statistics, Turkmenistan Activities Use Opportunities Open Respect Practical Measurements Overcom Quickly Crisis Phenomenon World Economy, Transit Position Dynamics.",1,test
0,"Venezuela tradit country host refugees migrants. However, the direct consequence of the criminological monism scale economic coercion hypotheses of economic aggression governing the people of the state, the process of the immigrant citizen that occurred, and the underlying economic causes.",1,test
2,"context, would also like to recall an extraordinary historical nation of the nobel peac laureate, former secretary-general dag hammarskjold, whose 115th anniversary marked the memorial year. consider a tireless inspiration of promoting the concept of preventing diplomacy. said hammarskjold, die crisi management hot mission, trust of mutual respect dialogue sincere negotiations between potential parties to the conflict at an early stage can prevent the outbreak of war.",1,test
0,"With regard to, please note that the Government Kingdom of Eswatini has adopted a pro-gender policy that promotes gender equality. The woman represents a positive force—compare within the field.",1,test
1,The public informed the Veeru talk back show Kovid-19 Inspection Committee. Also notify public weekly address nation broadcast live air television. Make sure people keep informing the government undertakings about the steps to protect the country. Government Continue Focus Build Necessary Health Infrastructure A person who is prepared inside the hospital can get the virus.,1,test
2,"Significant increase in militia. It has spent 2.5 2.5 trillion in the last 4 years. In every world of militia power, it is even closer.",1,test
1,"peac environment indispens talks about infectious diseases, will resume dialogue, conflict resolution determined to reduce suffering brings hope to bad people.",1,test
0,"share form future immediately fulfill promise take our unforeseen deed cooper coordin action level global village' community, economi governance.",1,test
1,"chairman g7 + group countri contributes to the totality countri affects the fragility of the conflict, sierra leon remain committed to promote peaceful, just, including societies. among the local action sierra leon taken reception goal ramp fight against corrupt training establishment perman commissioner pek nation cohesion. follow a promise made at the 74th session of the August authority, Expung 55-year law sedation libel crime. journalists work closely, civil society, women's groups, interest groups help strengthen democracy.",1,test
2,"Second, we need to work together to rebuild society's institutions. Immediate term, need help lost family members, lost livelihood education interrupted. We also look at the way in which the vulnerability of inequality to COVID-19 has exacerbated. You need to build just societies.",1,test
2,"Pandem Addit Enfus needs close internship cooperation. Special institutions, such as the World Health Organization, challenge aspects of health nature, socio-economic and political security.",1,test
2,"declared, covid-19 hurts botswana's economy. travel intern suspension global economic crisis dealt heavy blow two pillars economy diamond mining tourism. repeating the covid-19 lockdown protocol also significantly reduced economic activity.",1,test
0,"The expectation of the people from the government immediately and urgently to respond to countermeasures, which clearly requires a revision of the reform organization, especially the main organs, including the Security Council, the order will make the representatives better adapt to the demand time. Formal Bluff More transparency, justice, democracy, equality, strict respect for equal governments, especially Africa, the body able to write a new chapter. The end must tempt the nations in turn. Let us move forward together. We hope for peace. People are still committed. President,",1,test
2,"pandem escal econom crisi associ also negative effect support development, 2030 goals.",1,test
2,"Somalia, government people are working closely together to mitigate the worst effects of a covid-19 pandemic. such as ruling the world, prioritizing health citizens, saving as many lives as possible. direct medic provis consistent, update effect public health information, govern as much as possible keep popul safe as possible. covid-19 cases, rapid rise of an early-stage pandemic, cases of stable outcome of the government's rapid actions.",1,test
1,current exacerbation of the pandemic there is a discriminatory unequal risk of gender-based sexual violence. the disparity affects women's girls' access to basic health services. A healthy sexual reproduction fund health right should be a priority.,1,test
1,"The 2030 Agenda supports the development of the goal which states that, “there is sustainable development without sustainable development”. succeed in maintaining the internal security of peace, must end the occupation. adhere to the standard principle domestic law implement a resolute safe advice must be ensured.",1,test
1,The 75th anniversary of the Foundation has become an inspiration to transform organ consciousness into a body.,1,test
2,"Albania strives to fully utilize the economic potential, align the object of the nation's 2030 priorities, maintain the setting of the strategic agenda, and develop integration.",1,test
2,Identifying the Covid-19 pandemic struggle should also motivate us in combating the conservation effects of climate change.,1,test
2,"“Regarding the import, the continuous work strengthen the objective coher activ initi support g-5 sahel order respond effect challenge produce tangible result base term ensure development.",1,test
1,"keep repeating the statement terror constant danger stable prosperous around the world one of the major threats internally peaceful security. unfortunately, some, many, act statements. relev secur advice resolutely but find way un archive implementation. concerted action have not risen meet terrorism threat. on the contrary, invest in, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorists from one region to another, servic suspici agendas.",1,test
2,"Once again, a successful response is possible without the influence of the government of the company and the partnership of interns. Courag duti want to receive a special reward to save others from the risk of health workers. Recognition of patients who contribute to the Somali private sector, job management to ensure the functioning of the economy, an important servant of the Somali people's critics need hours.",1,test
2,"The impact of the ongoing weather conditions on us for a long time with a pandemic, covid-19 offers a new opportunity to act on a fast-paced, cost-effective crop.",1,test
2,"Yes, today we speak first of the new dangers facing the human being in the 21st century. Before long, covid-19 becomes a real threat, perhaps challenging weather threatening. global challenge to recognize borders, races, nationalities, detrimental effect, sphere, development of civilization. perhaps everyone felt more vulnerable to the common threat for the first time in several decades. hope believ uniti solidarity overcom defeat allow humanity to renew itself, to be wiser, to respond to the battle of distant vision. despite the fact that the difficult controversies of the current period allow us to better change the destiny of the planet. the highest moral political duty loses the opportunity, shows dignity, supports true humanism.",1,test
0,"Even if I face multiple challenges, collectively, move forward slowly, firmly, forgive me the system, regulate the standard better, stronger, more transparent than ever. result supervised internal order incomparable advance human freedom, achieve dignity among peoples, led to global economic prosperity sought to raise billions of people poverty.",1,test
2,Kosovo creates a comprehensive legal framework that protects small sub-cultural heritage. The full line often uses the European word for human rights protection.,1,test
1,"Mind you, consider three main issues. First, talk find find the unit response brought the emergence of the global health epidemic Quid-19.",1,test
1,"Third, the stringent covid-19 pandem service warns us all, requiring a stronger commitment to stronger action that promotes sustainable and inclusive human development. Agenda 2030 maintains the development of an ongoing framework for cooperation to overcome the epidemic and sustain recovery. Police work in the interest of the heart of the people of one country behind him. Develop financial assistance to receive the country, technology trade facilitates the achievement of sustainable development goals.",1,test
2,"Wait Iran Respect Principal Good-Neighbor Abid Secure Council Resolution Stop Ballist Missile Program Seas Arm Terrorist Groups Develop. In context, the country's special concern will soon expire. sinc Nuclear Agreement Achieves Expected Outcome, Experience Expensive Achieve Comprehensive Agreement The relevant State Region Key Partner makes the Draft Term Agreement.",1,test
0,"Botswana, which is often rained and rained frequently, puts the main target for 13 weather events. Weather conditions affect food production and hinder life. In addition, recent drought shortages have led to deforestation including wildlife. contribut anim death escal conflict man and beast.",1,test
0,"Keep Repeating Statement Terrorism Persistent Threat Stability Prosperity Across The World One Key Threat Peace Security Intern. Unfortunately, there are many statements. Security Council resolution relev secur So far you have found a way to implement un archiv. Joint action has not increased to confront the threat posed by terrorism. On the contrary, invest in, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorists one region and another country, the agendas of shady service.",1,test
1,"time, an instrument to unite the world to defend human rights, democracy, democratic institutions, defend the law, good government, sustain peace, ensure progress towards realization 17, sustain the development of objectives.",1,test
1,"Reja topic chosen session: ""the future wants, the nation needs unity: reaffirm collect multilater commitment - confront the effect of covid-19 multilater action"". The theme gives member states the opportunity to build general assembly work contribution. covid-19 pandem likely a challenging historic unit of nations. surely, the countri endur violent coup - still lasts - a long time. one forgets. San Marino among the countries affected by a severe pandemic. Viru caused death last month country, reason for celebrations. san marino continues to be a country that suffers the highest rate of contagion in the world, dramat consequ community.",1,test
2,"Venezuela, tell me, the necessary guarantees will hold a parliament invite you to join the world, live democracy, can't rob the people of Venezuela Some people intended us Venezuelan intervention — So far — the nation has decided to respect respect for your demands.",1,test
2,"national, semi-popular youth, extends further work to provide the young person with the appropriate status of public relations.",1,test
0,"empowering the girl nation of the central government government in the medium term. establish standalon ministers of child gender ministers, develop a gender-equitable nation empowerment policy for women, support the economic inclusion of entrepreneurship, implement sectors of women politicians from the Educate agriculture, promote women's health reduce maternal child mortality, strengthen laws on sexual offenses, introduce single rape of rape courts model sexual offenses.",1,test
1,maintain hope agreement add new power relat kosova serbia.,1,test
2,"Turn multilateral topic into multilateral reviews covid-19 pandemic-responsive, kind, responsible for global important coordination.",1,test
1,"The Covid-19 epidemic deepens the African crisis. Tunisia Stress Ongoing Commitment Work African Brother Trainee Achieve Sustainable Understanding Full Development Challenge Too Together. Field, reiter support weapons off African rifle. Initial efforts require more trainee support to develop Africa on the African continent free of conflict.",1,test
2,"overcom pandem Achieving the 2030 goal requires an economic agenda, and an industrial social policy aimed at achieving the economics of structural change.",1,test
2,"similarly, foreign call stop counters interfere syrian affair warns seriou implic syria ’united arab security. I also reiterate the political process as the end of the Syrian crisis protects the secur people.",1,test
2,"The epidemic clarifies everything Humanity needs to strengthen the multi-layered system, the main ideal principle, the affirmation of the international law of the Charter.",1,test
2,"First of all, covid-19 results in increasingly high debt in countries that are less rich in services. Essenti Multilater Financi Institute provides debt relief. support tailor-made concessions with the financial package of concessions. measure ensure adequate fiscal space country weather current crisis, also finance implement support develop priorities. Recognizing a great job already done in the area, however, I think it needs to be done.",1,test
2,"Let's build the Covid-19 practice lesson in the future. As 75 years ago, the lesson of the two world wars led to a global commitment between nations to resolve differences over peace.",1,test
2,"""The leader of the G20 favors the multilateral body to make loans in favor of the interest rates to relieve the debt of the heavily indebted countries, to postpone the pardon. occur, the tax space imposes compromised payment. except as required in the face of an unprecedented crisis. progress without internal cooperative solidarity.",1,test
2,"worldwide, the largest impact on the size of the economy affects Covid-19 the most. somalia, as everywhere in the world, challenges the economy of pain contract, job loss needs continuous substantial basic public service investment to protect the deadly virus of citizens. appreciate, the great task of restoring the post-conflict situation as the government of somalia remains steadfast rise respond to the challenges of divers ahead.",1,test
0,"people around the world, an unprecedented challenge of 2020. covid-19 delivers a complex web health, economic and social networking that provides government with wound healing, busi media systems. exposing real pandem makes us threaten newcomers. seen worse alreadi intolerance global inequ poverti face.",1,test
1,"turkmenistan strongly believe in the future and continuously strengthen build strateg partnership organization, therebi contribute inexhaustible potential interests unlock global peace, secure progress.",1,test
0,"one million people worldwide have lost the pandemic of working living. the social dialogue workplace helps alleviate pandem-shaped solutions. need to sustain the global transit labor market, issued a close work south africa, cyril ramaphosa, co-edit ilo report future work. Sweden invites countries to join a decent work partnership global agreement including growth.",1,test
1,"1 million rural health volunteers across countries play a vital role Patients, regardless of nationality, guarantee equal access to medical treatment. Furthermore, the Kingdom of Thailand also governs full support for COVID-19 vaccine development strategies. Thailand launches vaccine research program from the time of quitting, also encourages collaborating intern partners. in connection, urgent treatment of the Covid-19 vaccine considers access to all ‘public good goods’. the unit nation must play an important role.",1,test
0,LIVE UNMATCHED TRI TIMES. Never leader require making a difficult decision close the border provid near absolute guarantee people arriv covid-19 pandem limit common transmiss virus. Uncertainty faces proof that the Mettl nation rules like never before. samoa extend sincere condolences a family lives lost due to the pandem pay tribute selfless service frontlin worker risk alive bring covid-19 control.,1,test
1,"In 2020, the ""annual delivery"" force will renew the development of the kingdom to 50%, the project has caused a global pandemic, the sudden cessation of supply chains in the market, a major obstacle to achieving the goal of tonga.",1,test
2,Supply an over-the-counter suppository to the health system.,1,test
1,"The current crisis must also break the promise of the left. it also showed us that imports should not exceed natural limits. ""We need progress in freedom in only one activity, only in a healthy, human, social, integrated way."" it is also necessary to carefully consider the discussion of intelligent complex emissions.",1,test
0,"Increasingly investing infrastructure purposes economic product generation improving standard life. build resurfac roads, expand access to off-grid carbon neutron energies, extend ict penetration, improve access to water sanitation facilities.",1,test
2,"The report also highlights the challenges faced by the health sector, especially non-communicable diseases. Seven in ten deaths caused by Solomon Islands non-communicable diseases. The country remains the largest single death.",1,test
0,"el salvador, three times clean houses consider the problem stand ahead, but, thank God, see tangible results. help friendly countries, achieve drastic lower indicators of insecurity, including killings, robberies, among others. administration, save an average of nine days of live murder - nine families mourn death love one. thank god achievements thought as soon as possible.",1,test
2,"search for a personal solution, get stuck. The body will become a necessity to help meet today's global challenges.",1,test
1,"respond quickly determine the world is recovering, shape the ability to achieve support develop the goal manage global challenges.",1,test
2,"Achieving anti-crisis success requires leadership. The ultimate responsibility of managing a political leader is based on key facts, and politics takes into account the power of selfish interests. on the contrary - ignorance, lack of information to the population - fatal consequences.",1,test
2,"Iron County Repress Today Provid Advic develops the growing resilience of the small island state, making significant efforts in the critical field. Secretly the largest contributor to the climate is the result of Chrissy Bears proportionately, resulting in an incentive reduction in greenhouse ga emission.",1,test
2,"export-oriented, export-oriented country. invariably, therefore, tourist tourism industrial market stop agricultural product depressed, economical bells. date 73% workers' tourism sector, economy of labor intensity sector, job losses. as if at the same time, cities are embracing the health crisis. order a health crisis, manage, establish bipartisan national oversight, engage with broad-based supervisors responsible for belize, covid-19 recovery initiatives, including the covid-19 pandemic economy to reduce impact.",1,test
0,"economic front, economic situation ever-increasing weighting of the result of citizens economic distortion as a non-existent regime. in addition, a thorough reform introduced in order to eliminate structural defects of the court's economy indirectly increases the cost of living. painful pain reform, necessary long-term. order mitigating effects, start implementing a social support program family provide direct financial assistance to the poorest families goal reforms to mitigate the effect. The program also aims to support the product by providing direct support to the agricultural working group product rural urban areas. manage also support the creation of the cooper project implementation of commod program, the purpose of the project providing the main users of commod.",1,test
0,"country, high dependence on tourism, closed borders, cessat cruis tourism limits aviation, devastating effect overnight economy, serious result of loss of income, sudden and significant loss of jobs.",1,test
2,"Remarkable climate change, undoubtedly the greatest common future threat. Experts estimate, 2100 climate change five times the COVID-19 killer. abl organ 20 parallel teams around the world developing a vaccine against the virus, they lack a lot of knowledge. Climate change, you know do. Need to show real work together, one. Make the real priority. Let science and innovation as well as the compass of solidarity lead the way.",1,test
2,"on behalf of ruling the people, it may be timely to congratulate elect to preside over 75th session national unity general assembly. the experience of wealth serves the organ well, it guides us the agenda, in particular, unprecedented challenging times, global navigation road, global pandem caus covid-19. Let Assur Solomon Island support Cooper Tenur's office.",1,test
2,"On behalf of the people we also express our heartfelt gratitude to the people, volunteering to help private enterprises around the world. Helping us save the lives of thousands of people, eradicate cholera and continue to do so in the future. Saving Avery's life saves one another - saving thousands of future stars thanks to the latest action. Thank God God gave us the opportunity to have everyone help us.",1,test
0,"Iranian regime Interf Yemen support coup carry surrogate, Houthi militia, legitimate government. Leadership Political, Economic, Humanitarian Crisis The people of the fraternity are suffering Yemen. Coup Threat Safe Country Regions Sea Lane Important Global Economy. In addition, the Houthi militia obstructed the flow of humanitarian aid to the Yemeni people. also impede efforts to reach a political solution Yemen reject effort to deescal status, latest ceasefire announcement collet support legitimacy Yemen last April response A 'request, order effort countering the Covid-19 pandemic Allow Yemen to move forward. Instead, civilians continue to target the Kingdom of Yemen.",1,test
0,"accordingly, order contribution restore the environment, the situation of the country's social economy, november 2017 governs burundi republ launches burundi sheep urambay significant project of deforestation reduction effect.",1,test
2,"We welcome the tireless efforts of the United Nations Secretary-General, country-specific agencies, and the Foundation's Program providing immediate and long-term assistance to Member States in addressing the humanitarian, social and economic repercussions of the COVID-19 pandemic.",1,test
2,"wetlands, large European countries, California, problems. The large fire inevitably leads to the accumulation of organic matter under the influence of high temperatures.",1,test
2,"Fight Climate Chang Continues One Priority Andorra, Country Special Our Nature Environment. Year Critical Year Climate Action Plan New Scenario Understanding, Mark Ratif New Item Reduce Greenhouse GA Emissions, Climate Change Cop 26 held within the framework of the Unit Kingdom Provide. Andorra Approval Angel Agreement 2015 Without a doubt, the pass law reflects the Energy Transit Battle Climate Change Contribution Angel Agreement. In fact, One First Country Establish Plan Reduce Emissary Experience Work to BeCom Sustain Country Sins Every, Resource Nature Environment Should Preserve Future Generation. Reason, extra effort fighting climate change.",1,test
0,"The 26-year-old argentin israelit bombing at its headquarters, in anticipation of policing since 2003 continues. Caller islam republ iran cooper argentin judici author to conduct an investigation into the attack.",1,test
0,"Impact Climate Breakdown continues to affect us While we have dealt with the pandemic, COVID-19 presents new opportunities to act on climate change infrastructure, invest in jobs.",1,test
1,use tenur promot intern peac secur advocation peac resolution disput inclus discussion.,1,test
1,"The covid-19 pandem catalyst does not stay alive, supports the social host countries of thousands of migrants, and exacerbates the lack of responsibility to pay attention to the author's country. It is reported that it was. The fragil social protection system country becomes clear and will eventually present a socio-economic model. Once again, is it possible, but would you disappoint the large dollars given to govern the extravagant donor recruits who award Venezuelan immigrants? money? Does Governance Steal It? Beliefs need to be rigorously reviewed to identify the units of the strict role of scientists, the national institutions, the people's institutions, the theatrical process, and the International Organization for Migration.",1,test
1,"without a doubt, last year proved that ukraine is really striving for peace. manage unblock dialogue, resume the meeting of leaders of the normandy format, make substantial progress, release detained persons. beginning on July 27, includes the place of the ceasefire, which, despite the attempt to disrupt it, still gives hope to maintain the ceasefire. badli needs to keep moving towards genuine peace.",1,test
2,"I need to break the mistrust of the current climate. present, with eros multilateralism, seriou light, develop a new form of military technology, lethal autonomy, weapons system, laws, alter natur warfare, separate human agency.",1,test
1,"The continent of Africa, the response coronavirus fast effective. The continent’s strategy is to combat the economic communities of the region driven by Pandem. The African Union is creating the Cowed-19 Response Fund.",1,test
0,"pandem shows us fragile recreation need to build bridg people, nation regions.",1,test
2,"Bray also defeats Minak's global terror efforts to make the brave Armor Fork Caliber Amisom Internet Partner a safer place in the world. Continued support of credible government efforts supports domestic partners, Somalia contributes to KUWID-19 Positive multilateral efforts make the world better, equal space is needed for all.",1,test
2,"Five years ago, the climate change of the Paris Agreement was signed. It implements the framework's slow-paced global warming and gives the economy time to adapt new technologies.",1,test
0,"While trading the global proportions of the Solomon Islands in Pandem, the climate change of the Solomon Islands' continuous battl incremental effect does not affect livelihoods and protects the Solomon Islands people. Climate change results change weather patterns cause extreme weather events spectacular proportions. In addition, climate change results in a melting ice cap of warm global temperatures that causes sea levels to rise. Sea Level Extreme Weather Event Chaos Infrastructure House mentions threaten food safety. Last year, experienctraumat influenced the tropical cyclone Harold. Thank you for developing our partner's step and support our disaster.",1,test
2,"beware, the year of continuous events fractur multilater can dilute global development aspirations. triomphantli signed the 17 2030 agenda five years ago to support develop goals. must always return collect commit to redouble implementation efforts. vanuatu alreadi contextu global goal aspirations of the nation, articul vanuatu 2030 - plan of the people. year sought to ensure the nation's recovery strategies meet the immediate needs of the social and economic environment associated with covd-19 cyclon harold, enable us to rebuild better continue to develop aspirations. must continue to move forward backward forward. the increase in the frequency of extreme weather events means that recovery has become a new normal.",1,test
1,"For us, sdg reson well-developed planning base principle gnh. Reason, Bhutan Track Becoming Early Achieve SDGs, Voluntary Review 2018 is shown.",1,test
2,"""Climate change remains one of the biggest challenges. continuing with the disaster of climate change across the globe, consider the loss of property of life. clear disasters in the country. address climate chang effect call bold multilateral action us. Uganda, for example, continue to experience prolonged droughts, melt the highest iceberg, Mount Renzor, floods, landslides. the impact of the recent experience intensifies the increase of rainfall levels the main body water levels cause flooding to divide the area of ​​the country. continuous governance climate investment adaptation of mitigation measures including expanding access to clean energy order increase production, increase forest wetland cover, defining contributions to the nation's ambience. investment allows us to stop, reduce environmental upheavals degrade the negative impacts of climate change, improve the use of natural resources including economic growth.",1,test
0,"promot protect human rights core policy argentinian state since 1983. resolution result ratif grant constitution statute exist internal human rights instruments, well active participation region at internal levels.",1,test
1,"climate breakdown effect continuous impact on us for a long time we have dealt with a pandemic, covid-19 present a new opportunity take action climat chang country make a drastic change in infrastructure, investment in employment.",1,test
0,"Space months, 30 million covid-19 results confirm the case of covid-19, including 900,000 deaths, according to the latest official statistics from global health bodies. viruses in the healthcare sector remain new to the medical profession around the world, long-term health repercussions are being recouped or unknown, poorly understood.",1,test
1,investing hospital medic suppli ensur viru overwhelm the health system.,1,test
1,"burkina faso thanks a secretary general for the global call for solidarity, launched on march 31, 2020. call enabl establish a global framework objective promote the integration of flexible response, command to make the most of the system's global footprint.",1,test
1,"never human histori mani opport abl want to do, honest creat want to create. the network allows us to instantly connect the best brain in each world. network allows us to connect the interests of people, the world of aspirated vision. individual perspective. imagine humanity doing.",1,test
1,"Readi pandem claims 1 million lives - millions of lost dreams, millions of people mourn death love a million live forever changed. You must continue the work to prevent the number from increasing. God grant you the prayer.",1,test
0,"romania digital sector achieves 6 per cent innovation-driven innovation to increase GDP. see the opportunity figure of all in the main composition of economic development. The goal of transforming Romania's figures makes the state less bureaucratic, resilient, attracting foreign investment. also potentially the innovative center of the Romania region.",1,test
0,"The Story Lie Effect Government Machine behind Turkey's Success The Presidential Government System was established by High Capacity Infrastructure Investment Area Health, Qualify Human Resource.",1,test
0,"The South, for example, has found extreme ground in terror violence, resulting in casualties, looting of infrastructure, thus maintaining environmental fears. Background Political Institute Instability, poverty, isolation, border illiteracy, among others.",1,test
1,"The Pandem Audit emphasis requires close intensive internship cooperation, where specialized agency agencies, such as the World Health Organization, have an irreversible role organ response Newly occurring health nature, socio-economic, political security perspective.",1,test
0,"The coronavirus pandemic has stunned the world for years, making it hard for us to imagine. Already thousands of people have been killed and pandemics have caused misery around the world, and their illnesses are full of three pitfalls.",1,test
2,"The status of the single-nation global economy Status Wesp 2020 report, confirms the experience of the leader commune, the pandemic expands the unprecedented scope of the health economy crisis.",1,test
1,pandem came to show the global fragile health status is responding to a serious problem.,1,test
1,"Light High Mortal Level Destructive Effect Diseases, High Rate of Proliferation, Macken Multilator Must Continue to Use We Term Intern Solidarity, Order Intensity Combat Disease, Deter Loss Human Life, Relaunch Economic Development Process Countries.",1,test
0,"It also experienced an entirely new and challenging coronavirus pandemic. diseases directly affect millions of people claim one important thing: hundreds of thousands of people live. quarantines, border closures, a serious number of quasi-state citizen problems that constitute the current reality. It specified difficult elderli people who, due to the necessary restrictions, ablible to their loved ones, children, grandchildren, weeks and even months.",1,test
1,"rebuild a better place as an architect. small island with us we develop the state especially, the biggest global threat - notabl climat chang manag oceanes. for it the solute must be global, meaning an imperative internal architect place. resources address the complex challenge of becoming scarcer, the number of vulnerable ldc species owner face a bleak future. in simple words, they need functional nations, a unit of work. require employment agency without membership strong member states, multilateral organizations. know the problems, need to find a way to solve them, create an even bigger problem an ongoing trend undermines multilateral internal cooperation.",1,test
0,"As Alreddy said, the major countries are the Republic of Serbia, not the population of the region. But, the culture of judgment contributes to science, a country among developed countries.",1,test
2,"The Covid-19 pandemic accelerator moves to the public sector to convert to digital. New normalization, fast adaptation of the platform, remote use and conduct of absentee meetings. Most optimistic platform dependent figure The result of the young people's opportunity platform is related to cyber security cyber technology.",1,test
2,"""Sahelian landlocked country, alreadi face crises of number, chad suffers fully on the mani repercuss pandem variou level nation life. attend nation of the country's priorited upended, state-of-the-art resource resourc deal with foremost health, humanitarian socioeconomic emergencies.",1,test
0,"region tragic histori dictatorships, suppress military conflicts. Despite difficult legacies that still haunt the region, significant progress made over the past two decades, major thanks cyclical reforms lead to further nato enlargement processes of the european union.",1,test
0,"Concerns Concerns respect flare-up violence in Cabodelgado, Mozambique, and call the larger intern Commune Involve Fight tragic terrorist area Mozambique.",1,test
1,"“Uganda welcomes secretary general time appeal global ceasefire covid-19 pandemic. doubt pandemic global impact aspect of lives, social, economic politics, almost all over the world. arms conflict war continued, pandemic situation worsened even dire. Africa continent subregion organ continuously play critic role conflict prevention crisis continent. welcome direct partnership engag unit nation african union peace safe business, acceleration recent years. experience, where the internal community, the unity nation in particular, supports the regional efforts, is successful. encourage to strengthen the partnership.",1,test
0,"Approach, yet tested, secure livelihood, for the best abl, sensitive.",1,test
2,"covid-19 crisi brought a sharp realized import of solidarity cooper-among multilateral organizations, world health organization.",1,test
2,"Considering the Covid-19 epidemic, which has caused an unprecedented global crisis, litter claims affect hundreds of thousands of lives, millions of people are at risk of eye development. African Union Development.",1,test
2,"The biggest question mark is the credible intern com organizations to stop the Palestinian cause without a ground, under the pretext of creating a continuous settlement of Israel.",1,test
2,"must seize the opportunity of a 75th anniversary presents the current multilater system of pandem revitalization rules of covid-19. chanc collect recreate condit included economic growth envision 2030 agenda support development. need to strengthen collection to respond to future shocks, covid-19 erase the current shock, need to respond to the multilater system.",1,test
0,"Third, breaking the treaty is a good move by exporter critics to turn people into countries of trust.",1,test
1,"Kovid-19 lit a new light, including the World Challenge conflicts, in which the Eskles threat arm race terror continues Human Rights Abus Climate Chang Displays People Schurge Noncommunicable disease, disruptive technology redefin future work. See Fall Betting around the world exacerbating community divisions, escalating geopolitical tensions, and exchange traded threats to peace.",1,test
2,"violates the sovereignty of Iraq, use bargain chip europe housing, filed the force forc energi resourc mediterranean. the current turkish regime became rogu illegal regime of internal law. police actions, which threaten to ensure the stability of the entire region, must be stopped.",1,test
2,"The pandem of combat imper of today with the joint action multilater, the act alone, to build an equal world, to better equip, to resist the crisis, to reach a real support, to develop all.",1,test
2,"The sars-cov-2 pandemic forces us to unimaginable situations. The world suffered a sudden catastrophe Covid-19 was declared the first victim: schools, factories, offices, roads, stadiums, etc.",1,test
1,"A new road in Zimbabwe. Faced with crimes against humanity, as in national regions, illegal sanctions are exacerbated, adversely affecting climate change, and a complex outbreak Covid-19 pandemic occurs.",1,test
0,"""A landlocked coastal country, El-Areedy is facing a number of crises, and Chad is experiencing complete repercussions at the level of different nation's life. Presence of the state 'the priority of the state' upside down, the state 'reducing resources Redirecting the deal first and foremost health, social and economic emergency humanity.",1,test
0,determining the fight against the covid-19 pandemic should also inspire us combating the effect of climate change safeguarding biodiversity.,1,test
0,"Continuous disruption of the Kovid-19 crop destroys livelihoods and also poses a significant risk to internal peak security. especi Countri Conflict Emerge Conflict, Experience Humanitarian Crises, Weak Penalty Economy Building peace undermines post-war state structure.",1,test
2,"In conclusion, the united membership of the family nation must work together to renew the partnership to tackle the coronavirus. You must also continue to participate in the construction mode including the future prosperity you want the national unity you need. With regard to, we, Somalia, reaffirm the multilateral commitment to overcoming an ever-shared global obstacle and the opportunity to create a better and safer equitable world.",1,test
1,"romania remains a strong supporter of the multilateral rules-based practice order, un core. romania is committed to a more secure future, promotes sustainable development, respects human rights, and ensures peace. I want the future!",1,test
1,Future Multiletter Depends Transform Global Response to Covid 19 Pandemic.,1,test
2,"conclusion, the need must ensure impact multilater mobile stakeholders, governments, financial sectors, academic civil society organisations. to find a solution to today's global challenges, the voice of society must be heard, female girls, youthful children, and people's vulnerable situations.",1,test
1,"universal coercive measures to limit the attack - knowledge. May 3, Venezuela against the attempted marine manipulator entered by terrorists from a group of mercenaries, financially managing the state train Colombian territory, full absolute support of the US Colombian governments. real-time group terrorist confrontation civil-military police union, attack on the perpetrator, hand attacks Venezuela, neutrally captured, order of the judicial institute due process.",1,test
1,"context, congratulate aptli selected theme 75 session welcom opportune address assembl share share perspectives ""the future wants, unity nation need: reaffirm gather commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilateral action."" A small nation like a big nation well anticipated even depending on us sharing other care.",1,test
1,"violate the sovereignty of Iraq, use refuge bargain chip Europe, raised claim to power energy resource Mediterranean. current turkish regime becomes rogu outlaw regim internally. political measures that threaten the whole region must be stopped.",1,test
1,"Kigali amends the Montreal Protocol, adopted four years ago, to play a key role in reducing consumer hydrofluorocarbons. Call as soon as possible on the half-member state ratifi kigali amendment, force, pending ratifi.",1,test
2,"Come on, we've had peace for the last five years. We made a commitment a month ago - his brother Coalit supports the legitimacy of Yemen, ruled the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia - to try to support a unilateral ceasefire. Martin Griffith's latest ceasefire will allow the political process to resume. However, it is unfortunate that the Iranian regime is not a sponsor of the Hussite terrorist armed forces. Police even carried out mobile attacks on the governor's office.",1,test
1,v Creating a future crisis,1,test
0,"Russia's illegal annex Crimea Sevastopol invasion Eastern Ukraine violates serious internal law, challenges global security to human suffering. The EU clearly needs to implement the Minsk Agreements. Sweden The European Union has condemned the strongest possible poisoning of anti-Russian leader Alexei Neviny. The Russian government should transparently investigate the assassination attempt. The answer should bring justice.",1,test
2,Important issues related to the current political crisis are of concern.,1,test
2,"Adopted five years ago, the goal of sustainable development is definitely integrated global development. There are ten years left until 2030, let us deceive the difficult time. Countries, especi africa, alreadi out of the way of 2020. The epidemic raises destructive revenue growth around the world, as the new year approaches.",1,test
0,"origin ""culture of use and throw away"" flagrant lack of respect for human dignity, ideological promoter stronghold understanding the human person, universal denial of the foundation of human rights, desire for absolute power, generalized control of today's society. let's name it is: attack on the human being himself.",1,test
2,"Support for the domestic community, including individual representatives of the country, the private sector, the domestic academic community, civil society, the stability of the main public debt.",1,test
1,"coronaviru pandem chang located world completely, as a result, new realities have emerged. initially, viruses are expected to affect developing nations. however, the significant pandem impact is well developing in the nation. show a virus to recognize boundaries. mutual support joint effort pandemic overcom.",1,test
2,"Nuclear prevention, in particular, threatens to create a base of interaction, a barrier dialogue between people to end the poisoning relationship. Import Support Prince Intern Legal Tool Nuclear Disarmament, Nonproliferation Prohibition. Holy Trust Forcom Review Comfort Party Treaty Non-Proliferation Nuclear Weapons NPT Result Concrete Action Accord Combined Objective ""See the earliest possible date Sesset Nuclear Arm Race Undertak Effect Messer to achieve direct nuclear disarmament.",1,test
0,"In addition, a good opportunity requires friends to call to set up a movie theater that protects against committing crimes in a watershed area.",1,test
1,"Nevertheless, Pandem inevitably recedes the desire for development. Resource Redirection Fight Pandem Setback Effort provides housing, healthcare and water disinfection education people.",1,test
0,"The effects of climate change, including persistent severe weather events, floods, droughts, depletion of freshwater resources, desertification, rising groundwater levels, threatening the entire population, deprivation of livelihoods.",1,test
0,"covid-19 definitely becomes the time of crisis. the global death toll continues to rise, the global economy, trade, travel are disrupted. million hundr thousand jobs live lost.",1,test
0,"trinidad tobago join family 1962, year achieve independence. small island development state, continuous embrac principle collect secur enshrin charter large indemnity small states, rule of law, absence of militari economic power, maintain power sovereignty. mark 75th anniversary unity nations, states, small large, reason proud achieve umbrella rever organization, creation roadmap global support development, avanc develop trainee law promote gender equality.",1,test
2,Slovenia faces biodiversity loss as an urgent global challenge.,1,test
1,"Military increases thread size. $2.5 trillion has been spent in the last 4 military years. Military power anywhere in the world, even close.",1,test
0,"The government is grateful to Unit Nations, member state Intern Organ County General Benin, in particular, for considering the implementation of the design implementation strategy to help develop the epidemic. Thanks to Combin's efforts, the spread of the Viru limit country, i.e. the spread of Benin, reduced the mortality rate.",1,test
0,Massive Global Economic Restructuring Underway Current World Unique Opportunity Pursuit Hollist Transform Approach Address Number Escal Global Crisis Face Make Efficiency Use Resources.,1,test
0,The optimistic second step is to improve the World Bank rankings by implementing the East Busy version.,1,test
1,"reduce food loss, which is the basis for achieving sustainable development of three dimensions - economic, social environment. food relations maintenance practice innov solut number of the instrument main problems, crimes, alleviation of hunger, destruction of human health. San Marino considers it crucial to limit food loss, maintaining food consumption practices. to achieve this, you need to recognize the collection of relevant questions, the emphasis needs immediate effect. why, togeth principor andorra, san marino 2019 sponsor resolution design 29 september intern day awar food loss.",1,test
1,"With regard to the covid-19 pandemic, it caused an unprecedented global crisis, killing hundreds of thousands, affecting millions and threatening eroded eye progress.",1,test
2,"Many people were injured and killed in Afghanistan last month, and floods hit 13 provinces. Two years ago, a drought led us to a shortage of national wheat, which allowed us to provide food for the main agricultural occupation.",1,test
1,"current threatening complex situation proves state people world network regular dialogue, trust close cooperation between us is extremely important.",1,test
2,"liber democracy, we are also committed to promoting university values ​​such as human rights, gender equal rule of law.",1,test
0,"covid-19 response framework, first case of disease diagnosed, March 6, togo set crisis committee, person chairman republic chairman, nationwide coordination response, scientif management committee. see the long-term socioeconomic impact of the disease, also regulate the nation's solidarity economic recovery fund of the nation a total of 400 billion CFA francs, about $ 665 million. the measure taken involves the prevention of social distancing, the detection of cases, the mandatory clothing mask that raises awareness among the population. also closed the country of the variou area, establishes a curfew, closes the borders, gathers the meetings of the school universe.",1,test
1,"Empowering the Mid-Term Women's Development Program of the Central Government for Girls Creating issues for the Ministry of Gender Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, developing the policy of empowering women of the same sex, supporting entrepreneurial participation in the economy, approving female sections of agricultural education, promoting women's health to reduce mortality and Mothers of mothers during pregnancy, tightening of laws related to sexual crimes, introduction of one-step rape, sexual offenc model courts",1,test
0,"“With regard to recall debt, the major handicap pandemic has already been accentuated. African Development Bank found nearly 50 million additional people could risk becoming extremely poor in Africa by 2020. In addition, Africa's loss outcome pandemic could reach hundreds of billions of dollars in 2020-2021. Mani countries could force borrowing, adding to the debt burden .",1,test
0,"Graduate Class Lower Country Development Import Mileston Country Development Path Development. The Solomon Island cross stage graduated from the 2024 graduation schedule. However, Solomon Island has undergone a review every three years, and it has passed the vulnerability criterion. Weak become visible severe pre-existing covid-19 challenge faced Solomon Island made the path toward maintaining smooth transit for graduates difficult.",1,test
0,"In addition to government assistance, raise 2.5 2.5 billion in government assistance programs, including for orphans, poor students, madrassas, mosques, temples, school teachers, artists, journalists and more. As a result, the pandemic affects at least a handful of people.",1,test
2,"The 2030 agenda includes the goal of ""developing without peace and sustainable development."" to achieve peace and security, to stop the business. the consultant ensures the implementation of the law.",1,test
2,"For good reason, for the first time, the commemorative session of the General Assembly was held in an unusual format.",1,test
2,"simple reason ""internal community"" develops a common approach. therefore probably something else.",1,test
1,"likewise, multilateral institutions, the world trade organization wto, urgently need reforms. wto neutral arbitration trainee trade dispute mandate monitor enforce internal agreement trade laws. singapore, a strong multilateral trading system based on support rules, believev valu wto, brought us ten years of prosperity. However, wto' rule design agricultur manufacturing-base global economy, today urgently needs reforms. world needs appropri rule services, especially digit servic intellectu property, prepar digit age unfolds before us.",1,test
1,"It declares that the Pristina Autonomous Authority has declared independence-cal kosovo, un sc resolut 1244 1999 violat stabil republ serbia, also in the entir region, a seriously endangered species. Republ serbia fulli commit find compromis solut issu remind me of kosovometohija. Political responsibility protects interested people and also protects the stability of peace in the region.",1,test
0,"fifth driver riot climax first four - unprecedented explos inequ Continu perpetu state riot, - unless - take action. afghanistan focus human capital human secure creating equal opportunities fellow citizens society stable people.",1,test
1,"The impact of Covid-19 will keep the burden of the disease, invest in health care delivery systems, support the recovery process after covid-19. thus look for additional grants, access to financial and technical assistance for the development of partners, budget support, provide much-needed financial space.",1,test
2,"In addition, seizing the opportunity to invite a fellow participant wants to create an Internet Crimea platform concert action to protect the island of Sam Jeremy de Occupy.",1,test
2,"Pandem Exposure Wolner Today's World Widely Divided Nation Global development efforts, high levels of poverty inequality, climate of anger Chang constantly discriminates against the elderly, poor communities, women girls, highlights social harmony.",1,test
2,"mark 75th anniversary this, great institution, can not conclude that the import of unity nations humanity is beyond doubt. context required to fulfill revit ideally established.",1,test
1,"Welcom will also host the Summit's Biodiversity next week. Express Commit Promot Strategy Practice Sustain Use Biolog Diver Natural Resources, Development Mecha Improvisation Manag Use.",1,test
2,"Suleiman Island presented the nation's first voluntary review report on the July 2030 agenda. Despit made technological challenges, abl highlight the achievement of history. Solomon Island regularly monitors the number of children enrolled in the formal education system. Second, creating the country's financial framework with the pride of developing financial support for the implementation of sustainable development goals.",1,test
2,"given countri experiences gain against terrorism, extreme views of illegal drug trafficking introduced tajik peac's first defining nominal experience candidacy 'non-permanent candidacy non-secure council seat 2028-2029.",1,test
0,"pacif sids, brings world distrust further and further current trajectori emiss causes global warming 3. will be a fantastic island. pandem introduc temporari sever cyclon lock continues, ocean waves, ocean levels rising, oceans produce acidification. closed metropolitan, climat chang known restrict extreme respect.",1,test
0,"success concert common action objective prevent conflict resolution, explore the peaceful way address crises confrontations, first depend effect use prevent diplomacy mediation.",1,test
0,"The meeting is held because the conditions are very unfair and the world is always in turmoil. The results of the human tragedy call for a multidisciplinary test that allows us to act on solutions to prevent disasters. The General Assembly of the Wellcome Choice Session, ""The Future Wants, a Unified Nation Needs: Confirm the Collection of Commitment Multilevels - Identify the Multi-Liter Action of the Coveted-19 Effect"". The path of love, the ambulatory over-the-top environmental anxiety, forced us to choose a single connection. The Covid-19 pandemic requires a lot of sacrifice for us, the success depends on the crisis-related unit efforts to combat the pandemic to prevent the return of extremism to the people. The unfortunate reality is that the slow-moving efforts of the Covid-19 pandemonium are facing sustainable growth goals, including field health, hunger-appropriate work. That’s why the Internet Commune chooses a joint, global coordinated approach to respond to the appropriate epidemic. Consider, define the Secretary-General of the Initiative who initiates the cholera epidemic, launching the Unified Nation System of Global Response as a result of the prevention of the Pandemic Guide to Cholera.",1,test
0,"The government of the country attaches great import issuance rule, the country inter level level continuous effort address national law view development internal standard conventions. Undertook Multiple Initiative in Effort, Strengthen Local Review Writer Area Strengthen Country Capacity, Complete Competitive Body Responsibly. Process Achieve Rule Law State level responsibility State governments.",1,test
1,"Session Seventy Anniversary Creation Unit Nations Together. Opportunity Review Organization 'Work Explore Way Organ Bcom Effect Flexible Order Aspire People World Peace, Security, Democratic Development, Embodi Principle Purpose Charter Unit meets nations.",1,test
1,"Pandemic threat peace security apprentice. Sweden and the European Union support the implementation of the Secretary-General's call for a global ceasefire. The United Nations Security Council has an enormous responsibility. To succeed as a peace security intern trainee, the impact of reform must address current future challenges.",1,test
0,call practitioners municipal support governance efforts addressing economic challenge police plan strengthen nation-nation commentary ensuring family stability. intern community allows houthi manipulation of humanitarian aid blackmail govern loot funds certain payment payments. continues to undermine the consideration of national unity efforts.,1,test
2,"econom commiss latin america caribbean eclac forecasts gross domestic product gdp caribbean treaty 6.9 percent 2020, effect of covid-19 economies.",1,test
2,"That said, the catalysts for the Kovid-19 bet are the countries of the thousands of immigrant countries where Allready cannot live sustainably, the report being worse, the attendance of irresponsible author countries. The fragile social security system is clearly visible in the country, to some extent the current socio-economic models. Surprisingly, as much as possible, hire donors who give gifts to Venezuelan immigrants by giving the greatest amount to the dollar? Money? Want to steal it? Belief must be reviewed, Institute Scientific Rigor Role Unit Country Agencies, People Agencies, Game Processes, unhcr Intern Organ Migrate iom.",1,test
1,"samoa's long-term vision improves quality of life mirror of the un 2030 agenda, the critic's roadmap upholds the three pillars of the un. achiev sdg bring us closer to the world envisag organis founder 75 years ago, futur wants to join.",1,test
0,"The immediate crisis of Covid-19, climate change remains the greatest threat to life, people remain silent for a long time. The head of the Pacific Island Forum reaffirmed last year that Kainaki II had taken urgent measures to change the climate. The power of internal communication is 1.5 ° C. In a limited global with a safe flowering blue blue quiet safe.",1,test
1,"covid-19 exposes vulnerable food security systems. As an atol nation like tuvalu, agriculture is struggling to rise to sea level. recent years, help develop partners, invest in a new agricultural food system resili climate change sea level rise. Acknowledging recent work in the area of ​​the Peacebuild Fund would encourage large-scale aid to initiate the development of food security nations.",1,test
0,"In conclusion, Unit Nation Family Nation Complimentary Membership must work together to renew the partnership facing covid-19. You also need to be engaged continuously. Regards, we Somalia reaffirm that after multiple overcoms the common global obstacl capit everi opportun will create a better, safer and equal world. Your excellence,",1,test
0,"Sudan’s current experience without the unprecedented torrential rain floods of the impact of the conditions, challenges the face of the Reddy. The flood blue caused considerable loss of human life throughout the region close to it. The dam also caused flooding in large areas, including partial total destruction of 10,000 homes. I would like to, respectfully, comrade Brother County support the demonstration of the general support response disaster.",1,test
2,“that low-level composite synergy between different initi forc current sahel. therefore believe time translate word action sahel honor pledge contribute marshal addit resources create g-5 joint strength fully implement implement project develop g-5 sahel priority invest program.,1,test
2,"Coping with global threats will change the unprecedented challenge. Last month, the threats of the Internet were proven",1,test
1,"fear the insecurity of those seized, the health system weakens the socio-economic fabric in total shake, causing the loss of millions of jobs. March 21, the country's first case of confirmation. first state of emergency declared, the citizen has already taken measures.",1,test
1,"respons leadership also means the willingness to see common global interests. preserv best exist architecture internal organregim cooperation. often driver effect solutions. know always work perfectly. Instead, if you fret to invalidate it, you must find a way to improve it.",1,test
1,"Indeed, Africa's continuation faces political security challenges and hinders sustainable development efforts.",1,test
0,"covid-19 also illuminated the conflict of global challenges in which new light exists. This includes terrorism in the arms race of the Escal threat, abuse of human rights, changes in climate change, the elimination of non-communicable diseases, technological turmoil, the redefinition of revolutions, and the redefinition of future work. Watch the fallout pandems deepen community divisions, escalate geopolitical tensions, change trade relations and threaten peace around the world.",1,test
0,"It is necessary to agree confidently, to achieve results quickly.",1,test
1,"covid-19 Pandem Complete Situation Transit The government has inherited the weakly devastated service sector of crippl economi, especially the medical sector, and has ignored decades.",1,test
0,"Peace and security The development of Central Asia directly depends on the settlement situation in Afghanistan. The principle of Turkmenistan remains unchanged. Alternative negotiation process. Previous experience showed a coercive approach the possibility of failure of the settlement agreement leads. The state of the immediate, neutral neighbor of the Country of Afghanistan is ready to provide the political necessity to organize the territory for a peace dialogue that will govern Afghanistan with a partial interest in the development of a political settlement in Afghanistan.",1,test
2,"way elaborate work together, import task and g20 states, properly manage integrated interstate organs also go hard time because pandem impact require development of new horizon scope.",1,test
0,"Finally, proposals for a permanent establishment in Afghanistan will address long-standing concerns of Afghans.",1,test
2,"it is worth noting that pre-covid-19 beliz finds that economic decline caus ongo prolongs climate impact drought impact primary sector output, along continuous challenge caus sargassum inund marin spaces. September 4, Hurricane Nana hit us and caused another blow to the agricultural sector.",1,test
2,"“Uganda applauds the appeal of the secretary general's time for the global pandemic of the cessation of the signing of the covid-19. doubt pandem global impact aspect lives, social, economic, political, almost countries around the world. The armed conflict continued the war, the pandem worsened the situation even in a terrible situation. Africa 'continent sub-region body continuous play critical role conflict prevent crisis continent. welcom direct association participation unity nation african union security issues, speed up recent years. Experi showed where the intern community, the nation's unit in particular, the support region's efforts, were successful. Encourage strengthening the association.",1,test
0,"Furthermore, the Royal Thai Government has also introduced an introductory financial response package that will assist the Relief Finance burden to help people bus operators, low-income groups, women entrepreneurs, farmers, and weaker sections to have equal access to governance. Finance Liquid focuses on trying to sustain entrepreneurial businesses. Considering, ""Central Economy Sikat Administration"" Sesa Act Main Mechanic Formula Compressed Policy Economy Social Rehabilitation Synerg Attempt Public Private Sectors.",1,test
2,"finally, the political processes initiated by the auspicious unit nations, also led by Syria from Syria, brought about the completion of success.",1,test
2,"decarbon remains the central effort to combat the impact of climate change, to help build small, fragile economies. need clean afford energy energy efficiency, renew electrification. pari agreement’ 2020 commit update ndc develop low emiss development strategies remain crucial. synerg covid19 recovery effort acceleration transit low carbon build resilience.",1,test
2,"Afghanistan, Experienced Adaptation Issue Revolution World Sork Economy Opportunity Impresses Young Population, Strengthens Good System Governance Law. Look no further for the Knowledge Tri-Replica 19th-20th Century model now, as soon as possible.",1,test
0,"Unit Needs Nation 4.0, Found Value Integrity Vision Unique way of technological change, create human, democratic social inclusion.",1,test
1,"""In the case of Sudan, Chad's signing of the peace agreement between sudanes parti 31 August Juba Thank you for the media efforts, Chad's President salva kiir mayardit republ South Sudan, whom he personally commends.",1,test
1,"Finally, you must get your covid-19 vaccines in a timely, fair and equitable manner, which means working competitively collaboratively. The United Nations must make sure the world is at risk. Paramedic break pray for her, loneliness efforts should drastically ease people's impact.",1,test
0,"On the occasion of its seventy-fifth anniversary, this great institution cannot conclude that the import of the Unity States continues for mankind beyond any doubt. The context needs a revision that fulfills the well-established ideal.",1,test
0,"take consider ongo process pandem impact, government government Tajikistan along prevent prevent spread spread infecti disease exert effort undertak required measure aim insur consist sustain sustain oper socioeconomic country country.",1,test
2,"Initially, let me sincerely greet the assumption of the President of the 75th Session Unit of the General Assembly. excellence, make sure you commit to support, mandate, make sure, trust the president success, direct us to collect persecution, future desire, spirit ralli cooper essenti unit nation need.",1,test
2,"People inform the Corona virus monitoring committee. Also, broadcast live the country's weekly public address on television. ensur peopl had information about the step governing the country's commitment to protection. Ongoing Focus on Establishing the Necessary Health Infrastructure in a Hostess Ready to Stay A person may be infected with the virus.",1,test
1,"However, like innovation, digital technologies are spreading uncontrollably and falling into conflict zones of radical extremist areas such as monastic weapons, as well as leaving developed countries at great risk.",1,test
2,"Botswana, a semi-arid country with a rain-fed drought, is linked to a higher import target of 13 climate action. Climate conditions hinder food production. In addition, the recent drought has resulted in a source of dry water, including wildlife. Cause death in human-wildlife conflict.",1,test
2,"Uruguay develops a plan to respond to the nation's climate, eliminates hazards, reduces adaptation.",1,test
2,"anoth instanc unilateral global financial system organizes membership restrictions engages universal ""black list"" corresponding universal banking link withdrawn. a small number of blacklists dare to exercise sovereign right creates a fee system forc competitive rule voic setup.",1,test
1,"Development of the region, the organization chooses to continue the 2015 2030 agenda yet the Ambiti tool ensures the well-being of the people. The 2030 Agenda, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), three-pronged sustainable development - economic, social environment - cross-cutting approach. The organ also promotes human rights. Growing up in different areas according to internal human rights standards, Espace thinks about women’s children.",1,test
0,"The year 2020, recalls Mascara, Grundwill push back the umbrella of borderline racism, the #blacklivesmatt movement.",1,test
1,"but, mentally, also led to an uncertain question in the future.",1,test
0,"urgent Internet Communion Continuity seeks a multifaceted approach to facilitate debt restructuring to ensure access to public policy, address the continued growth of the pandemic.",1,test
1,"cannot overemphasize urgent action to protect the sustainable use of ocean resources, marine life. however, an action that means a science-based derivative effect informs the data. support proclam unit nation decad ocean scienc sustain develop 2021-2030 provide overarch framework allow ocean ocean scienc countri sustain develop ocean.",1,test
2,"On behalf of Sierra Leone, we extend our deepest condolences to the members of the government in connection with the Covid-19 pandemic. Hello, the selfless front is responding to the global emergency.",1,test
0,invest hospit medic suppli ensur viru excel health system.,1,test
0,"In 2019, a Brazilian injured venezuelan seepag oil, sold without proper control, causing seriou damag around a large fishing company.",1,test
1,"believing multilaterals allow us to overcome the enormously challenging face world. Indeed, the health crisis that is causing Covid-19 pandem ravag world has shown us that we are making a concerted effort to help us mitigate its global effects.",1,test
1,"Ordering a flat curve pandemic averts the global economic crisis, must react together, spiritual unity.",1,test
0,"fully aware of the responsibility, Russia offers a G5 summit. will aim to reaffirm the key principles of trainee behavior, to develop a complex way to deal with today's burnout problems. promoting the partner support initiative. Expect a summit - man - the epidemiological situation will soon be possible.",1,test
1,"believ un prestig strengthens multilateral relations, a component of humanitarian humanity, and is named for youth interaction, culture, social education programs, cooperating sports, science, technology and environmental health protection. Can be attached.",1,test
0,"care citizens, find real grassroots cooperation.",1,test
0,"Differences in conflict, misunderstandings of time, and even the distrust of some colleagues consist of positive constructive, unit initiatives, and areas where initial arm control strengthens the treatment regime. Includes banning chemical and biological toxin weapons.",1,test
0,"watch as Iran respects its chief neighbor as the council members stop developing ballil missil ceas arm arm groups. Well, many factors affecting the ban on Iran's nuclear deal will soon end. The sinc nuclear deal will live up to its expectations, hopefully using the implementation of the agreement to talk about the state of the state is making the deal a major agreement.",1,test
1,"On behalf of the people of El Salvador I also express my sincere thanks to the countries, and repres privat Enterpris volunteering around the world help continue to help us. Help enable us to continue saving thousands of lives, pandemic run, and the future too. Save Avery Save A Life With Reps Jill Save - Hunder A Live Future StoryServe Thanks for the recent work. Thank God he gave us the opportunity for everyone to help us on that.",1,test
1,"Impact Climate change leads to future conflicts, among other things, the risk of food insecurity, large-scale evacuation, social tensions, deterioration and long-term contributions. The greenhous ga emiss project fell 6% in 2020, but as a result of improved air quality, a pandemic resulting from a slowdown in the economy of travel bans, distant trucks in the global community have reached a 1.52 ° c target call Paris agreement. Meets one of the above. decad 2010 2019 The warmest decade in history. Governing the private sector needs to accelerate the transit climate environment and transform the economy.",1,test
1,"pandemic, the higher emphasis places food production. Time, taken in moderation, provides the right people for nutrition. special arrangement made the industry to lead the market properly the agricultural product industry produces complete compatible health guidelines. consequently, the economy of the health sector still compares the best form. Desperate covid-19 driven by global industrial output, GDP recorded a growth rate of 5.24 percent, expecting 7 percent next fiscal year.",1,test
0,"War serious complex problem concerning neighbors undertake to resolve exclusively dialogue, take into account interest groups.",1,test
1,"need to agree revitalis gener assembl make a real attempt at reform secur council. internal governance, never before, needs to be representative, inclusive, open. need to take into account a broad spectrum view recognizing the wealthy divers of the global community. The ability of the UN Secretary General to meet the current challenge will also depend on the financial policies of member states. game essential continue support.",1,test
0,"In addition, the untold toll of human health, the pandem has left an indelible mark on the global economy. Across the world, countries are experiencing a sudden shock to economies. Beyond the immediate challenge of the current crisis, greater focus of the recovery epidemic is needed. impact covid-19 mitig act collectively immediately applaud the efforts of various internal regional organizations, unitary nations, world health organization, non-aligned countries movement, african union at, commonwealth , intergovernmental author develop common east african igad eac, among others, coping with pandemic.",1,test
1,"Uruguay develops National Climate Chang Response Plan, Address Risk Prevention, Meeting Adaptation.",1,test
1,"although in the face of multiple, collective challenges, push forward, slowly, steadily, forge the rule standard of the tuning system better, stronger, always show through before. result the internal order supervised unprecedented advance human freedom, achieve dignity among the peoples, given the prosperity of the world economy sought to raise the poverty of a billion people.",1,test
2,"The internships of the member states, who want to represent the government's free unit country, will consider providing assistance, develop the country's general Benin, and in particular design a pandemic of strategic response. Thanks to the combined efforts, it meant spreading virus-restricted countries, widening Benin rates and low mortality rates.",1,test
1,"socio-economic well people remain at the heart of samoa's development initiatives. the promotion, respect, protection, realization of human rights, fundamental freedoms, were essential to guarantee one left behind. engage the human rights approach supporting development. continue to invest robust system process improvement included effect implement human rights obligations. to provide the liaison nucleus to support the development of the secure priorities of the nation.",1,test
0,"Responsive leadership also means looking at shared global interests. Secure the best existing architect internal organ regime collaboration. Often driver impact solutions. Always knows the perfect job. Instead of trying to recover, they wallow in their sadness and thus, experience more failure.",1,test
2,"Adoption, Assembled Secure Council, Verio Covid-19-Focus Resolution Well Initiative Secretary-General Antonio Guter's aim is to promote the global Solidarity Cooper fight Covid-19 address has a long-term impact on livelihoods.",1,test
0,"Economy Comis Latin America Caribbean eclac forecasts GDP gdp Caribbean contract 6.9% in 2020, impacting the covid-19 economy.",1,test
2,"Turkmenistan Strong Strength Strengthens the Strategic Partnership Organization to continue in the future, contributing to securing global peace, incredible peace, progress.",1,test
1,"Considering, there is a need for rapid change from a safety council to a well-represented, national continent.",1,test
0,"Deep concern has recently ignored domestic law. Seeing the current situation, the need for joint efforts aimed at strengthening international law, the multi-stage legal instrument of the global security system, the strict public administration, acceptance of the norm derived from the Charter. This way, stable conflicts can predict the decline of world politics.",1,test
1,"come end, year 2020 no doubt seen a difficult histori term public health crisis brought coronaviru diseases covid-19 pandemic, spread of the world, cause untold human suffering. expos mani unforeseen vulnerability under internal commun caus unprecedented economic crisis. deliber assembly still seek last plague cured. would like to opportun pay tribute memori victim viru praise extraordinary work healthcar worker everi countri save millions of lives.",1,test
0,pandem come show global level weak health structure react problem high degree severity.,1,test
0,Geopolitical Tension Palpable Conflict Path Loom Vario Corner Globe. The health crisis raises tensions.,1,test
1,"would also like the intern commun call to ensure that the current pandemic outcome fails to fully accomplish the honor done at the multilateral level. the protectionism of the nation should be avoided, it would harm the internal practice with the internal trade, it would break the supply chain, it would distribute the treatment of needs, the health crisis.",1,test
0,"covid-19 exposes vulnerable food security systems. atoll nation such as tuvalu, agriculture difficult sea level rise. past years, help partners develop, invest in new agricultural food product system resili climat chang sea level rise. acknowledgment of recent work in the peacebuilding fund area would encourage scale initiatives to develop food-safe nations.",1,test
1,"Iranian regime interf yemen supports coup carri replacement, houthi militia, legitimate government. led political, economic, humanitarian crises fratern people suffer in Yemen. Coup threat safe land region sea route vital world economy. In addition, Houthi militias obstructed the flow of humanitarian aid to the Yemeni people. also hinder efforts, polit solve, yemen, refuse efforts, deescal situation, announce final ceasefire, coalition supported legitimacy in yemen last April, responds to a query to allow efforts to fight covid-19 pandem Yemen continue. Instead, you continue targeting the civilian kingdom of Yemen.",1,test
1,"field develop help develop country least developed countries, support country influence negative impact climate change, qatar fulfill promise make contributions of $100 million support least developed country small island develop state agreement climate change.",1,test
2,"Call back. In this context, the provident support of the brother who stood in Qatar has a good effect on the population to stop the counter flood, need help against natural disasters.",1,test
1,"allows you to continue praising the theme assembly's general assembly session. it may be the time of the critic, finding the face of the most pandem killer affects awful ways of the modern world. mani live tragic lost mani continu affect ongo onslaught. may take time paus reflecting, viru chang live appearance way collaborating impacts breeders.",1,test
0,"Today we see the merciless escalation of the militias, especially the governor of Marib, Al-Jawf Al-Bayda, and the Houthi militia launching an indiscriminate military campaign for months. Attacking ballistic missiles in the population area, worried civilians surviving million displaced people fled from the control of the area's militias. Terrorist militias frequently target the civilian civilian infrastructure of Saudi Arabia. clearli demonstrates the true intention of peace.",1,test
0,Country is making real progress in tackling another global problem that has been left behind the sidelines.,1,test
1,cultur heritag azerbaijani peopl territory today ’armenia demolish looted. Armenia also destroys the territories occupied by the Azerbaijani religious historical monument. to point you were Azerbaijani trace there.,1,test
0,"The government spends a lot of money, spending about 8 per cent gdp, mitig on public health problems, amid declining monetary policy and foreign exchange reforms.",1,test
1,"adopt support develop the 2030 agenda well bet agreement on climate change key step in the face of the biggest challenge today - global economic instability, increasing social inequalities effects of climate change.",1,test
0,the drought flood season occurs in afghanistan. need region solut base internal model address climate change problem.,1,test
1,"Therefore, so that an agreement is not created on climate change, sustainable development, the goal, essential incorporations mean the reconstruction of roads of the countries. Develop family farming, rationing plan, use natural resources, fight pollution, protect the environment, engage citizens.",1,test
2,"Twenty-f years ago, the World Women's Beige Chart Transform Agenda Gender Equality, Continuity Guided Us. Women’s empowerment has made us safer affluent. True gender equality still reaches the country.",1,test
0,"Seychelles agrees on the need for intern solidarity Bonder, who has ever faced the worst crisis in the life of the human economy, multifaceted work, development of developed countries.",1,test
1,"It took us 44 years of independent blues to achieve a quality life, enjoy covid-19, 4 months covid-19 paralyzes the tourism industry a lot of economy.",1,test
0,"end, govern introduce econom polici reform encourage fast-track transform mani sectors. action goal create environment enable private sector develop aim goal 8, is decent work economic growth.",1,test
2,"The conscious assembly, Sudan undergoes the transit phase after the injustice of the popular revolt, the tyrannical socio-economic decline. transit governance broad address aspir sudanes peopl three maximally deal with the new import challenge to establish peaceful economy reform.",1,test
0,"Today, the year in honor of the 75th anniversary of the nation, Andorra wants to add voice support body repression essenc multilateralism, the last year managing conservation initiator spirit evolved time. now, always, must appeal to the recognition of the spiritual vision of the founders, despite overcoming obstacles terrible war well differs in opinion order order preservation of mankind.",1,test
1,world life fearful internal peace secure threat worldwide geostrateg tensions.,1,test
2,cause problem exist region today unilateral step taken greek greek cypriot sinc 2003 maximalist requirements.,1,test
1,"“concern tension around great renaissance dam ethiopia, chad call brotherli rules egypt, ethiopia sudan continuous priority dialogueu order reach negoti solut aegi african union.",1,test
1,"finally, the proposal to create a permanent un commiss Afghanistan would address the concern of the long-suffering Afghan people.",1,test
0,"unspeakable sorrow for the Afghan people, especially child women, over the past 40 years, are a reminder of the UN charter, and also fail to keep the promise to ""keep the internal security of peace"".",1,test
0,"cooper a secur council at peac secur council contributing to improvisation peac secur darfur region sudan, south sudan, somalia, mali central african republic.",1,test
2,"Let the unity of the nation work for all of us, call for a Call Collect Commit on an individual, communal, national, regional level on a global level. pandem also demonstrate weak level of class development, jeopardizing, among other things, the opportune access of many countries developing financial rescheduling. Uncover needs, revise the success of countries expand beyond the traditional level, develop gross national income, full vulnerability, especially crisis experience. The needs of each country must take isolation into account and address a multilateral context. Help Us Gather Commit Bottom Multilater Help Us Gather Advances Future Want Unity Nation Need.",1,test
1,"context aspiration preparation apripri apridi condit reach peac answers economy humanitarian difficulties face brother palestine, we, coordinate trainee partners, continuously provide humanitarian development assistance to take care of urgent long-term need besieg gaza strip, addit increas contribute unrwa.",1,test
2,"one kingdom continues to ignore calls resum territori dispute aggrgrav disput calls for unilateral exploitation reorganize zoning unsettled natur Resourc, running counter counter gener",1,test
0,"Success avoids crises, requires responsible leadership. Ultimate Response Government makes political leader decisions base fact knowledge, political calculation selfish interest power. Contradiction - incompetence, deforming popul - fatal outcome.",1,test
1,"In fact, the recall Climate Chang devastating impact population, especially poverty, rural migration, social exclusion intercommunication tension natural resources.",1,test
0,"“Uganda applauds the Secretary General of the Time Appeal for the global ceasefire-Covid-19 pandemic. Doubt pandemic global influence aspect life, social, economic, almost transnational around the world. Arms conflict war continued, pandemic made matters worse. Sub-region of Africa's continent continues to play a critical role Conflicts prevent crisis continent. welcom direct partnership engagement unit nation african union peac secur matters, acceler in recent years. Experi shown where the internship community, especially the Unity Nation, supports the region’s efforts to be successful. encourage to strengthen partnership.",1,test
1,"African continent, face the cyclical scourges cruelti poverti endem natur, see also worri spreading the disease. order against this, the african union is implementing a control and prevention strategy, recommends the prevention of disease control by central africa, whose implementation cost is estimated at 200 billion dollars. also establish the African platform of suppli medic improv provision covid-19-rel medic equip supplies, access is becoming more and more difficult due to strong market demand. Regard, welcome African Union nation partnership unit address challenge poses pandemic. The country believes the 20 Secretary-General's Appeal Leaders Group adopts the developing country stimulus package, calls for the cancellation of the debt suspension, action is taken.",1,test
0,"The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the brother of unlimited support, has made great strides in implementing the Riyadh Accords, aiming to create stability. The event of remorse took place in Aden, August 2019. The Ritter Trust's brother kingdom, Saudi Arabia, continues to implement the agreement.",1,test
1,"South Africa is once again committed to an ideal spirit with the Charter, an extra effort to bring about a just and peaceful world.",1,test
1,"meaningless obvious evidence, joint efforts, collaborator of cooperation among the nation, exchanged between the special scientific institute managing the problem with the problem, previous complete unknowns, we undertake to look for a quick reaction to reduce the effect of the disease.",1,test
0,"linear “new normal” post-covid-19 path. Stage way, countries need a balance between public health concerns and social economic concerns, to compromise on the unique circumstances of the nation. Continue Cooper Key Overcom Devastating Impact Pandem Rebuilding. need to establish greater trust, need to learn from each other. Cooper also needs to establish a safe protocol order to restart the trip.",1,test
0,global threat fears world peace guard geostrateg conflict.,1,test
1,"Warning escal situat countri urg intern intern Take more concerted action to combat terrorism, counter drug traffickers, such as delivis deliv while assisting the government of the people of Afghanistan.",1,test
1,Australia supports those who develop a global framework for the allocation of vaccines.,1,test
0,"First, the modern supply chain complex. Extreme Tough Complete Onshore Product Key Items as well as the material specialist elsewhere always require a multiple step process. Mani Desh's experience disrupts the flow mandated good lockdown. Supply Chain Base ""Just-in-Time"" Efficacy Review Base ""Just-in-Case"".",1,test
2,"Second, the fundamental principle of the nation's unity charter is to uphold the country's contemporary internal relations of advanced standards behavior. must resolve to persevere advancing cooper friendship against conflict hostility. must choose the confrontation dialogu, the imposition of the unilater act of settlement of peaceful disputes. mind, viet nam call for abolishing unilateral sanctions adversaries affect the socio-economy of countries develop people's livelihoods, especially the embargo imposed on cuba.",1,test
1,"Aggressive Azerbaijan, Armenia continues to face a deep demographic and social economic crisis. chang regime pass armenia two years ago, the fascist ideologues malfunction remain unchanged.",1,test
2,"1. Encouraging the widespread use of renewable energy sources, would facilitate environmentally friendly “green” economic development.",1,test
1,"Even pleads difficult times because covid-19 pandem high-level mutual solidarity region demonstrated, to a large extent, precise result building a proactive relationship serbia building neighbors from the previous year. cooper intens region countri relat repatriation citizen relat issuance of humanitarian medical assistance, also regular supply goods.",1,test
0,"Invest time strengthen state structure creat environ conduc growth. means further fighting corruption in the system, improving public finance management systems, strengthening governance at the provincial level.",1,test
1,Deliber Armenian attack 2017 led to the death of 2-year-old grandmother Zahra Guliyeva.,1,test
1,call intern communication make serious emergency engagement near immin crash surround fso safer oil tanker. a militia detachment refuses to provide the nation with access to oil tanker repair support.,1,test
0,Current Politics Crisis Mali Rebel Sahel Bring Serious Concerns Urgent Provid Unambigu Support Ongo Attempt Initiation Com Economy West African State ecowa.,1,test
0,"A single resource financial product sector recovering diverted, given the current context, serv need biosafeti need urgent epidemiological nature brought pandemic.",1,test
1,"covid-19 pandem comes to prove the coordination of the acts, respons share in an efficient way and a satisfactory result achieved.",1,test
1,"Global Cooper Partnership, Region Nation Level, Critical Construction Resilient, Sustain Inclusive World.",1,test
2,"Covid-19 crisis proven disinform hostile action inform the environment threat to internal human security, effect addressed. Crises show the need for urgent access to reliable, accurate scientific information. thus confirm role-free, independent, account pluralistic media, strengthen transparency, strengthen account trust.",1,test
2,Usu Collect Today Kovid-19 Pandem Chang The world knows. Online Form Avoid Adopting Act.,1,test
2,Express Hope Talk Serve Peak brings Stable Long-Suffland Afghanistan.,1,test
0,The natural cause of disrespect affects climate change and humanity. Biodiversity that destroys ecosystems associates new diseases with COVID-19 illustration.,1,test
2,Drought floods occur in Afghanistan. The local solution base internal model address problem requires climate change.,1,test
1,"Terrorist extremist groups pose enormous national security challenges, serious threats to stable countries in different regions.",1,test
1,Also use the survival crisis of prescribing pre-prepared economic power.,1,test
0,"Twenty-two years ago, the world of women beij chart changed the gender equality system, continuing to guide us. women's empowerment made us more secure. good sex and gender equality still prevail in the community.",1,test
2,"increase investing purposes infrastructure general economical product improvisation standard of living. construction of paved roads, expansion of access to carbon-neutral energy off-grid sites, expansion of ICT penetration, improvement of access to sanitation facilities for drinking water.",1,test
2,"global collaborations with cooperatives, regional national level, crucial resilient building, supporting inclusive world.",1,test
1,"decarbon remains a central effort to combat the impact of climate change, helping to build vulnerable small economic societies. clean need to afford energi energi efficiency, renewed electrification. peer agreement '2020 commit updat ndc develop low emiss develop strategies remain critical. synerg covid19 recoveryi effort acceler transit transit decarbon build resilience.",1,test
0,"renew commit expect deliv concrete result key benchmark relat democratic function rule law, reflect crossparti polit consensu serv overall stabil country.",1,test
2,"and hope, because, as always, see it as a sympathetic unity, a beautiful health care professional, with a sense of community that is always in the best interest of the people , increasing environmental awareness.",1,test
2,"hope and action will achieve global goals and help find solutions to global problems, climate change, poverty, gender inequality and gender inequality.",1,test
1,"""Chad has developed a plan and firmly supported the donor roundtable in Paris 2017. Expected results are due to low-level expected resources. Therefore, order support is sustainable development. Governing efforts to promote, paying homage to the important Chad for the financial efforts of the pledge, the current preparatory second country develops plans.",1,test
1,"Accordingly, Belarus Advocate supports Progressive Initiative and maintains orderly Fully Realize Potent Organ Internal Peak Security.",1,test
0,"The scheduled 75th session gives us a fitting opportunity once again, to turn our eyes to the world of powerful multi-liter address multiple complex challenges today.",1,test
1,launch mitig protect strategi forestal avers effect climat chang especi vulnerability populations. urg intern cooper urgently implement par climate change agreement.,1,test
2,"argentina manag seal big deal almost private external creditors, as a first country meets the challenging debt restructuring pandemic.",1,test
0,"Shri. President, Barbados Recovery Economic Social Impact Kovid-19 Pandem Slow Traumatic. The Renaissance Economy Balenc Act Tourism-Rail Service reopens Air Travel and seeks to keep the population safe. Imported Global Tourism Industry, Frontline Worker Year Mark Receive Approved Vaccines Given Firm View Worker Sector Priority. Largest Million Peoplesback Work Stimulation Keeps the Biggest Global Economic Driver,",1,test
2,"terror violent extrem continuous repression a serious threat nation people internal peace security. aggravate plagues exploit certain countries through crisis activ organ crime. threat target state itself, social cohesion effort develop democracy.",1,test
2,"therefore, the pivotal moment turns the crisis into a timely new agenda for revit secur peac, a strong conflict of emphasis prevents consolidation of peac processes. the peac oper context effort must continue to be ever more efficient. also support greater integration of principle respons protect action focus project prevention.",1,test
2,"Fortunately, we still confirm the suspicious case of Covid-19 Vanuatu. The closure of the primary boundaries gave us sanitary answers to window preparation, as well as serious social costs. On top of that, April, the country still experienced a severe, fifth-degree tropical storm. Stop disaster leaving alreadi left endur Oscar family, commune country. Limit resource pressure on previous disaster prevention efforts. The ever-threatening catastrophe of a severe weather event intensifies the intensification of climate change. Even so, experience ensures that we work together, improve, create better and more resilient.",1,test
1,"the elimination of threatening terror requires a clear perception of the root motive for causing terrorism, a common global approach to defined terrorism.",1,test
0,SID makes a heroic effort Social safety net on rising unemployment in edge jobs People's response to Covid-19 limits Capec Resources.,1,test
0,"Remarkable climate change, undoubtedly the biggest threat to the common future. Expert Estimates, 2100 Climate Change Five Times Deadly COVID-19 ABL Organ Create 20 Parallel Teams Develop Anti-Covid Vaccine Around the World, Knowledge is very lacking. Know about climate change. Need to show real work together. Give real priority. Let science, innovation, also solid compass lead the way.",1,test
1,"current chairman of sadc organs policy, defensive cooperation, botswana commission ensure close attention given to terror fighting the security threat in order to strengthen the sadc peac stable region.",1,test
2,"Time, invest to strengthen the structure of the state government. Continuous combat system corruption, improv public finance management systems, strengthening the provincial district level governance.",1,test
1,"mr. president, barbados economy recovery social impact covid-19 pandemic slow painful. resuscit economi balance act reopen tourism-rel servic air travel, make sure the population stays safe. given import global tourism industry, clear view of priority of the labor sector among the frontline worker, gets approval for vaccinations. 100 million people back to work, boost the world's biggest economic driver,",1,test
1,The coronavirus presents weak vulnerabilities. alreadi brink left poor poverti. I found it difficult to get health care powerless. Reducing access to education has lost hope for a better future. Even a stable country faces great socio-economic difficulties.,1,test
1,sid Bold Efforts Coast Jobs Promotes Unemployment Social Security Pure People Response Covid-19 has limit capacity resources.,1,test
2,"Of course, come the sponsors of financial terrorism, the current Turkish regime reigns supreme. The Turkish regime is a main sponsor of militant Syria territory. Facilitate Passag Ten thousand Foreign Terrorists Syria Provide Continuing Al-Nusra Front Allied Terrorist Group Genocide Syrian. Carry 'Turkification' Force Displaces Policy Territory Occupy Syria. Consider punishing one million citizens in Turkish-occupied Hasaka dozen towns, the Turkish regime repeatedly cut off the city's water supply, endangering surviving civilians, especially the Covid-19 pandemic. Legal Terms, Zodiac War Crime Crime Humanity. Way, Criminal Behavior Terrorist Demonstration Cut Water Supply Million Citizen Damascus 2017. Then, as today, the defense of self-style human rights also raises the finger.",1,test
2,"A major threat around the world is to keep internal peak security repeatedly Statement Terror consistent risk constant. Unfortunately, some, many, advertising statements. Find a way to implement the Relief Secure Council resolution and archive. Joint action has not increased in countering the terrorist threat. On the contrary, invest, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorists from one region to another, service suspense agendas.",1,test
0,"The year 2020 undoubtedly recalls the dark time, the indel mark of the pandemic, whose devotional effect every aspect lives the demons - they need demons - they collect vulnerability.",1,test
0,"Marg, Celebrator Un’s next landmark, 100th anniversary, will achieve a 100 percent literacy rate, empowering everyone who knows meaningful skills for life.",1,test
0,arbitrari engag countri as barbado must cease. done without known involvement. contrari law natur Justice. factor combination push countri back the postcolonial state of the state.,1,test
1,"un secretary-gender alreadi initi essential work. reformed the UN gear to meet new challenges, also promoting consensus among Member States' emerging issues. continuous need to emphasize the issue such as support such as a small island developing least developing countries.",1,test
0,"introduce unprecedented seri except living people who mitigate the destruction of the economy, the de minimis unemployment of security workers. ensure a specified including factor of approach that requires the seychelles of the different stakeholders, consult the private sector, trade unions, inter-religious civil society organizations needed.",1,test
1,"the Covid-19 initiative seems to be the health, gradual turnaround justifying the global socio-economic finance crisis. state affairs certain current situations require the activation of coordination actions.",1,test
1,"Reiter Cole-related nations' promotion efforts Brother Sudan Deleted name Sudanese list State-sponsored terrorism, the face of difficult hardships cost them. In the context, Qatar's brother-provided support counter flood server often inflicts the people of Seriouda Magfacil and calls for the kind of necessary support counter natural disasters provided by the intern community.",1,test
1,"theme time recalls valu signific multilater ultimate framework everlast solut exist emerging global challenge met. indeed, in the world a much safer place of the nation works together to gather time for a complex threat.",1,test
0,New Technolog Artificy Intelligent Allready Become Backbone Daily Live Busy Essence Public Service Running.,1,test
1,"multilayer system advance interest small countries. the larger nation also benefits the multilateral institution, gaining political legitimacy. in favor of a peaceful, stable prosperity of the global environment. multilateral institute provision avenu countri pool idea work co tackle common challenge face humanity, including covid-19 now, also essentially our advanc share interests.",1,test
2,center develop people. Advanced human capabilities require improv educ health care. societies product result higher than better standard life.,1,test
0,"Burkina Faso UN Secretary General thanks Global Call Unity, launches 31 March 2020.",1,test
2,"Stationary organizations that own the natural resources of Azerbaijan will be held legally liable, do not stop illegal activities immediately. Azerbaijan Alreadi will take legal action.",1,test
1,firmli believ collecting commitment requires achieving a quick effect of implementing the initial agreement.,1,test
1,"linear “new normal” post-covid-19 path. Stage way, countries need a balance between public health concerns and social economic concerns, to compromise on the unique circumstances of the nation. Continue Cooper Key Overcom Devastating Impact Pandem Rebuilding. need to establish greater trust, need to learn from each other. Cooper also needs to establish a safe protocol order to restart the trip.",1,test
0,"covid-19 pandem decim economi exacerbates poverty, and shows us globalization, must work to respond to the challenges we face today.",1,test
1,"Yes, politicians, Duti protect the citizens. but viru distinguish unilateralist multilateralists. Covid-19 a safe, everyone safe. We therefore avoid the form of “vaccination nationalism”. Develop a vaccine to become the new racing moon.",1,test
1,"hopefully it will produce positive results following the effort to make a spiritual change, react quickly, feel strong people, fulfill it soon due to the current crisis disrupting the product products, affecting commodity exports, depleting vital economic resources, leading to high unemployment. human condition.",1,test
0,"Covid-19 pandemic left devastating effects on the social economy. live dependent on accurate time information. full exercise of the right freedom of expression, access to public information protect journalists who are important welfare organisations.",1,test
1,"second, bifurcate shrinking global knowledge pool reduce timely share benefit innovation research. countri open share scientif knowledg abl produc test kit quickli pandem earli phase. the prime minister said the global vaccine summit last june, needs vaccine multilateralism. need a larger internal cooperator to ensure equal vaccine for covid-19 access",1,test
2,"State rule Attach significant import law Nation law at intern level Make ongoing efforts address nation law presentation Develop ensuring consistency of intern standard conventions. The effort also consists of multiple initiation undertaken locally, author area building, strengthening the nation's capabilities, being competitive, performing tasks consistent with relevant laws. The process of achieving the rule of law at the state level responds state governments.",1,test
2,"chairman of the g7 + group countries unite countries affect the fragility of conflict, sierra leon remains committed to fostering peaceful, just and inclusive societies. among the local actions sierra leon taken aim to promote the ramp of fight against corruption prepare to establish the cohesion of the nation peac commiss permanence. follow the commitment made 74th session August body, expunged the law of 55 years criminalis sediti defamation. working closely with journalists, civil society, women's groups, interest groups strengthen democracy.",1,test
1,"mher yegiazarian, an Armenian journalist politician who died in prison after a hunger strike in January 2019. The reaction is an intern body, whose mission is to uphold democratic human rights around the world. human rights watch, international amnesty, house of freedom, other inhumane and brutal actions of the despotic regime of Armenia. The reason for the financial support of the Pashinyan regime is a non-governmental human rights organization around the world.",1,test
1,"How countries, temporarili close border regulate movement people limit the spread of covid-19. The priority has always been to protect life and ensure safety within the borders. Temporari border closure causes the largest drop in visitor numbers since the advent of modern Bahamas tourism.",1,test
1,"In addition, we must work towards ensuring access to basic auto health services, particularly high-quality primary care, and the key achievement agenda for 2030, sustainable development, in particular MDG 3.",1,test
2,"""The internship community, especially the UN, must accelerate the development of the African continent, develop the country in greater numbers, reflecting the commitment of the Central Internal Priority Concrete Action.",1,test
2,"Economy front, economy situat continue to increase weight citizen result economy distort cause no longer existing regime. In addition, implement far-reaching reforms, aim remedi structur defect Sudan's economy, indirect increase in the cost of living. Reform pain arduous, long-term necessari. Commission Mitig effects, start implement social program Support families Provide direct financial help poorest families aim mitigation effect reforms. program also aim support product provide direct support agriculture working group product rural urban areas. govern also support cooper project set up implement commod program, project objective provide basic commodity citizens.",1,test
0,"action includes capacity building small island developing state coping with pandem of external shock like covid-19, shaping disasters, impacting climate change.",1,test
0,"July 12, 2020, Armenia carried out another provocation along the state border. 76-year-old soldiers kill civilian as a result of artillery bombarding tovuz district in azerbaijan, expanding damage to civilian infrastructure.",1,test
0,"Theme Time Remind Value The critical multiplayer ultimate framework Everlast Solution has existed, the emerging global challenge has been met. In fact, the world is a safer place. Nations work together towards gathering responses in times of complex threat.",1,test
1,"“I would like to recognize the leadership excel mr. matamela cyril ramaphosa, president republic south africa president african union, commission of the african union. abl putting the continent's strategy in place responding to the pandemic taking time measuring the target medical group supplying member states, safeguarding the African economy research vaccinating covid-19, among other things.",1,test
2,commenc cooper intern organ region region partner institute elabor two new term strategy clearly shows success.,1,test
0,"occasion, rider fest stanc state qatar way end syrian crisis polit solut base geneva communication 1 implement safe council resolut 2254 2015. State of Qatar also continue to confirm internal community, support efforts realiz keep account of perpetrators atrocities, war crimes human crimes commit Syria.",1,test
2,"South Africa’s reaffirmation is a charter without an ideal spirit, extra effort to bring a fair, equal world.",1,test
0,"Drastic and bold measures taken under domestic law prevent recognition of the double standard policy, yet two other important factors face challenges.",1,test
0,"What needs special attention are vulnerable groups, especially young people. The economic impact result of the pandemic lead to an increase in the number of unemployed young people, early migration country of origin.",1,test
2,"Decades of action The sdgs need to work together to protect the planet's ecosystems. Resort rations are needed, planetary resources are used to pursue economy growth and full respect for biodiversity. The Biodiversity Summit offers unique opportunities and offers ambitious accelerator action. Biodiversity sustains development.",1,test
1,"First, we need to strengthen the multi-later mechanism in the global region. Trulli's unity of unit nations is needed, members of Everi, big and small, rich and poor, voice decisions are a common concern. un must serve ""incubator"" multi-later Cooper Initiation peace and develop prosperity. Reforms are undertaken and the less powerful organs of effect play a role in the interest behavioral state of harmony faces the monument's change time.",1,test
0,"To celebrate the 75th anniversary of the association, it is necessary to address the backlog. Ensuring equal participation of individuals, regardless of gender, 2030 agenda.",1,test
1,"also applaud, assemble safe advice, different Covid-19 focus resolutely well initiates Secretary General Antonio better aim promote global solidarity cooper fight against Covid-19 address impact on livelihood long term living.",1,test
1,"sahel, for example, terrorist extreme end is found fertile ground, leads to mortality, destroys infrastructure, looting, therefore maintains environmental concerns. against the background of the political institute instability, poverty, exclusion, borderline illiteracy, among others.",1,test
1,"Sudan, Despit Chang repressed Shahid Dekad, backwardness of injustice, Despit Achiev was done during the short period of the Glorio Revolution, the transit period still faces serious challenges, it must overcome the constant support of domestic partners to implement government programs. Leave the target address of the countries' economic problems, first of all, among the auxiliary loans through the debt of Wow Sudan, be well committed. That is, the name of Sudan should be removed from the list of countries that support terrorism, the countries should be completely eliminated for three decades. Text, We wish to appreciate our recent move in managing the transit government to support Congress, including accelerating the listing of countries on the Terrorist List.",1,test
2,"zimbabw new way. Like the national area, the Humanitarian Challenge case will further exacerbate the Kovid-19 epidemic of illegal sanctions, adverse impact climate change, compound spread.",1,test
0,"Today, despite the current circumstance of a Covid-19 pandemic, we must restrict the method of movement for the appropriate time, have the ability to communicate between virtual emotions, thanks to the almost limitless possibilities that new technological services have brought to humanity.",1,test
2,"The economic, commercial and financial embargo against Cuba Mani a year ago is, in my opinion, a major cause for concern. Reason, repeated invoking the order to lift the penalty for Cuba to face the socio-economic challenge without restrictions imposing unfair sanctions and taking the best opportunities for equal trade in the Organization of Member States.",1,test
2,"disagreements, misunderstandings of time, and even distrust of colleagues, constructive, cooperative initiatives, strengthening the treatment regimen of first-hand control. Chemical, biological and toxic weapons are prohibited.",1,test
2,the covid-19 strongli pandemic confirms the need to strengthen the role of the nation unit. the relev forum should never be questioned.,1,test
1,"Coronaviru pandem means neg impact cours leading global economi and undermining the efforts of all communities to achieve development goals. context, expecting intensifi cooper aim to restore economic trade relations. today an important innovation is making global economi a growing supportive environment. ideas, energy, transportation, business and industry are important areas.",1,test
1,"pandem escal econom crisis associa neg neg effect sustain development, 2030 goals.",1,test
1,"Increasingly investing infrastructure purposes economic product generation improving standard life. build resurfac roads, expand access to off-grid carbon neutron energies, extend ict penetration, improve access to water sanitation facilities.",1,test
1,"celebr 75th Anniversari nation unit, the need to strengthen the resolution guarantee one has passed. Ensuring equal participation of all persons, regardless of sexual orientation, 2030 Agenda.",1,test
0,"It took us 44 years to qualify for the independent life of the Seychelles, the Covid-19, the 4-month Covid-19 paralyzed tourism much enjoying the industrial economy.",1,test
1,"He would also like to highlight the method of treating the outcome of the covid-19 problem in an exemplary way, the results of which will take a major impact in the experience Now, the nation's system of global health members is working quickly and recommends significant assistance in controlling the spread of the disease.",1,test
2,"First of all, I would like first of all, praise be to God Almighty, to enable us to come to discuss Izu, dear heart, on behalf of mankind.",1,test
1,"Moreover, the royal government of Thailand also introduced business operators, such as non-communicable groups, women entrepreneurs, farmers, the weakest group ensures equal access to governance assistance. focus of finance growth efforts liquid entrepreneur supports businesses. in connection with, the definition of ""administration of the economic center situat"" cesa main mechanical act formula to understand the economic policy social rehabilitation synergistic efforts private private sectors.",1,test
1,"Space Month, COVID-19 Results 30 million confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 900,000 deaths, the latest official world health organ figures. Health sector Viru remained a worldwide novelty gem scientific medical profession, long-term health effects either unknown or poorly understood.",1,test
0,"There is an existing risk of covid-19 pandemic that is not compatible with human health safety around the world. Confuse the health sectors, disrupt the global food supply chains, the travel entertainment industry is well disrupting the livelihoods of people all over the world. The alarmingly small economy of the Armageddon Pandem gives us sensitivity to external shocks. In addition, Covid-19 threatens to re-achieve social gains towards achieving the goal of sustainable development sdg.",1,test
1,The Covid-19 epidemic is quickly becoming a global threat. Away. Learn alreadi Lessons: Can't go back to normal.,1,test
2,"As for Secretary General Multilater Respons Marshal Financi Resourc's wide-scale appeal that at least 10 percent of global GDP deserves full support, show us how the effect is addressing global challenges.",1,test
0,Solidarity justic drive seneg The role of the Committee for the Illegal Exercises of the Palestinian Right.,1,test
2,An essential economic figure supports the transformation of development. mani countri yet realis full economic powerful digit digit economics mani way ensur develop levels of self-sufficient people.,1,test
2,"no, enough. the plan must abandon everything. the annex would seriously undermine viability. the latest decision closes the door to future negotiations.",1,test
2,"likewise, multilateral institutions, the world trade organization wto, urgently need reforms. wto neutral arbitration trainee trade dispute mandate monitor enforce internal agreement trade laws. singapore, a strong multilateral trading system based on support rules, believev valu wto, brought us ten years of prosperity. However, wto' rule design agricultur manufacturing-base global economy, today urgently needs reforms. world needs appropri rule services, especially digit servic intellectu property, prepar digit age unfolds before us.",1,test
0,"think about the political stabilization of key conditions, the recovery of the social economy in afghanistan, the successful integration of the world economy to the implementation of the large afghanistan infrastructure project 'involving the energy of the sector primary vital, transport communications.",1,test
2,"First the driver must identify the confusion. Five resources, Afghanistan simultaneously agreement. Kovid-19 reveals pandemic harm, we, the world community, cannot ignore them. First Wave Pandem Close Government, BC Society Cooperation, Minimum Input on Agencies, Bet Expos Gap System in the Afghan Fortune must be addressed.",1,test
0,"I would also like to highlight an example of how to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic problem, the effect of which would lead to a dramatic experience in the reports now, a system of special agencies of the world health authorities, a national system of action, a rapid transition. to control the spread of the disease.",1,test
2,"realistic plan build power land, social protection health system, high-level public safety of the education model, uniqueness of history, culture divers privileged natural environment. however, plan also, one would expect, identifies an aspect that needs to be improvised. reason, develop road map war impact action taken moment effect far beyond the present time. line of action support development goals, government institute must change main catalyst promote unity nations.",1,test
2,"Consider, consider the effect of the pandemonium, prevent the spread of infections along with Tajikistan, make the necessary efforts.",1,test
0,"democratic society, thailand place people center. People provide important social synergies to drive national agendas, Integrate Sector Country. cooper generos thai people time crisis, impact outbreak minimal situation brought control. Note, I wish thank you World Health Organization recognition Thailand a country provide covid-19 reaction. however, continue to remind that public underestimation of the situation continues to be underestimated in order to prevent a second outbreak.",1,test
1,"Likewise, countries call to stop foreign interference in the Syrian affair, seriously warn the security of the Arab unity of Syria. also reiterate the political process so as to end the Syrian crisis to protect the safe people.",1,test
2,"the first teacher everi grandparents, family, global computer human rights group described ""natur fundamential group unit society"". more often than not, the person with difficulty makes the team members less vulnerable and makes the team more creative, less stressed, older and younger, and feels that children without father has no root. family breakdown reflects social divisions that hinder the efforts of common enemies. time to reflect on his accomplishments.",1,test
2,"Percentage of Tajikistan's soil covers the mountains, wasting thousands of millions of dollars on water wastage.",1,test
0,"Bet Already Claim 1 Million Live - Million Lost Dreams, Million People Du Death Kham Death Love One Million Live Forever Changed. Work must continue to prevent an increase in the number. God prays for them.",1,test
2,"pandem highlight imports resili nation health system strong national health financing. the african union champions agenda among member states emphasizes spending more, spending better. africa goal leverage resources strengthen impact world health associations, gavi global fund.",1,test
1,The courses should keep the remote pandemic at bay and also pose a threat to the online community.,1,test
2,"The government’s voluntary honor commit includes a political agreement, a violation of human rights law, and the pursuit of human rights by some of the most popular arm group signature agreement. The group also pursues illegal means of reem, thereby undermining the Peak Nation reconciliation process and guaranteeing social cohesion.",1,test
0,"global family, collect engage effect multilater tackl covid-19 pandem meaning address prevail universe challenge poverty, hunger, disease, natural disasters, climate change, terrorism, human rights violations, cybersecurity, the crime of transnational organs.",1,test
1,"today, the world faces tremendous challenge from the covid-19 pandemic health, humanitarian, economic consequences force us to stand together to face the common challenge of the world. the g20 presidency, the coordination of the kingdom, the practical effort of holding the leaders' summit last march, the coordination of global efforts to fight the pandemic to curb economic and humanitarian impacts. summit, proclamation of the kingdom promised $ 500 million support in efforts to fight the pandemic, reinforced prepared responses. the ongoing kingdom promotes global response efforts in the face of the consequences of addressing the pandemic.",1,test
1,"In fact, natural disasters have shown that we are committed to developing an import policy to combat all kinds of global problems.",1,test
2,"Decades to come, get high-speed connectivity with close-linked Digit Literacy access. Secretary-General 'Roadmap Digit Cooper Forces foresight, work broadband shirts.",1,test
2,"countri also continuously call peace settlement disputes. context, reiter uae' firmly posit legitimate right-wing sovereignty three islands: greater tunb, lesser tunb, abu musa, occupi iran flagrant violation of internal law un charter, totally ignore histor record clearli affirm uae' property island island arab rule since ancient times. that is why uae are demanding that iran return the owners of the island rights. countri call iran peac resolv issu direct negotiations, internal court justice. Iran, however, is answering calls.",1,test
1,"An active laboratory is currently confirming the case of Covid-19 infection, despite the border reopening on June 1, the Daili Commerci flight North America Europe, an attempt to generate revenue, the vital tourism sector to protect livelihoods.",1,test
0,"The bet also recognizes Serie ethical, technical humanitarian issues. For example, Advanced Digit Technology Help Quickly Regorgan Education, Trade Services, and the well-established Distant Online Course People help people of all ages. The Artificial Intelligence Assistant doctor performs time analyzes to find the best treatment.",1,test
0,"Wealth. President, the future wants people to take a step forward, common support solution challenge emerge, development with order, right respect opportunity offer every citizen develop the world, leave one behind.",1,test
1,"Reiter import confrontation covid-19 effect multilateral action, want recognition enabl economy financial support provid somali feder manages mitig worst covid-19 economy pressure trainee financial institute mani multilater institut somalia success reaches a crucial point achieving relief mani large lenders trainees. progress towards achieving debt cancellation of possible economic reforms, maintaining knowledge of the economy of the future of Somalia prosperity of people close interconnected holiday world. from the perspective, the future want Somalia a promotion of a larger internship trade partnership, improving foreign direct investment key product sector potential feed world development human capital creating opportunity all of us. unit nation needs including global multilayer platform drive idea aspir chang realized too. COVID-19's economy has challenged us to uphold the development goal we once achieved, the world needs to recover better, all together.",1,test
2,"Kyiv worried about the lack of progress in Security Council reform. Samoa remains convinced to expand the mirror of the current Security Council, the credibility of the integration of the realiti essenti multilater Council. Increased non-permanent parcel part repair package, time move text rule negotiations.",1,test
2,"would also like to give an example of how the problem is being addressed, the result of the covid-19 pandemic, the effect of which would be a dramatic proport experience now, the world health body, the special agency of the unit, the nation system, act quickli pass recommend greatli help control the spread of disease.",1,test
1,The covid-19 pandem has had devastating socio-economic consequences. Live depends on accurate time information. A complete expression of freedom of movement and access to public information protects journalists' major well societies.,1,test
0,selected topic 75th session general assembly pertin current moment experience world. convinced multilateral best way to combine efforts to achieve the effect of mitigating economy finance crises covid-19 pandemic imposes the world.,1,test
0,"truth, extreme level uncertainty makes the future difficult to predict, the answer to the question must be simple.",1,test
1,"also experience a whole new challenge corona virus pandemic. diseases directly affect millions of people claim import things: live a hundred thousand people. quarantines, border closures, numer seriou troubl citizen almost state form the current realia. especially difficult older people who, due to necessary limitations, hug loved ones, children grandchildren week even months.",1,test
2,"Thank you for governing unit states, help us transform the public system 31 intensive care units into 1,000 multi-functional units, send us 600 ventilators, the world of supplis is short.",1,test
0,"Albania seeks to make full use of its economic potential, to align the nation's priority object by 2030, to maintain a program for the development of national strategies, and to develop integration.",1,test
0,"Beliz dependent on tourism, export oriented country. invariably, therefore, travel tourism industry shutdown market agro product depressed, economi bots. date 73 percent employee tourism sector, labor-intensive sector economy, lost jobs. seeli at the same time, country plague health crisis economic crisis. order deal health crisis, government establish bipartisan nation oversight commission noc broad supervisors response belize' covid-19 response recoveryi initiatives, including initial impact covid-19 pandemic social economy.",1,test
2,"The situation of scale in the midst of an epidemic, life-threatening People at increased risk of an outbreak is considered to have increased. The international community is paying close attention to the problem of the Aral Sea region.",1,test
0,"In recent years, the United Nations continues to expand its sphere: the issue of improving people's living conditions has become a key element of the multilateral agenda. eradication of poverty, fight against injustice, development of a formula for initiating climate change. The obvious pandemic will worsen the situation, but also serve to change the paradigm, to create a green world at the right time, to rise to the national level, to approach the main political action in support of transvestites, the level of interns in the world of cooperation.",1,test
2,"Allow Kovid-19 Multilator Support to re-confirm the theme session for revision. Global Solidarity Cooperation, Empathy, Inclusive Resilience, Note Imports in Multilator Protect Weak People, Address Inequality Universal Access Provides Covid-19 Medicine Vaccine, Well Improved, One Lag. President,",1,test
0,"let us conclude, mr. President, the call of reiter sierra leone created resili health carcar infrastructure service limits the protection of people from danger Covid-19. the way the internal community rebuilds stable stable market finance create the right environment support global business trade, investment, job creation. must reverse progress towards achieving sustainable development goals.",1,test
0,"because at one stage of the journey, the nation always solves a difficult problem for mankind.",1,test
1,"On the economic front, the state of the economy is constantly increasing. In addition, the mass implementation of intensive reforms, aimed at remedial structural defects Sudanese economy, indirectly increase the cost of living. Improvement is painful, necessary long term. Order Meeting Effects, Social Program Support Family Provide Direct Financial Aid Start Implementation Poor Family Target Meeting Effect Reforms. The program promotes direct assistance agricultural labor group production to rural urban areas. The government also supports the Cooper project implementation commode program, project objective to promote basic commode citizens.",1,test
2,"yes, politicians, duti protect citizens. but distinguishes unilateral multilateral aspects. covid-19 is safe, everything is safe. so we will avoid the ""nationalist vaccine"". to become the month of vaccine production.",1,test
2,"The next step is to take back areas occupied by illegal military-form weaponry, control the state border, and finally, integrate the area within internal recognition borders.",1,test
0,"The socio-economic impact of the epidemic felt that the year was coming. recov is a long cost process, especially vulnerable. Global solidarity, the effect of the intern's political colleague committed critic to maintain a better recov answer.",1,test
2,"commemorating the year of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the country's unity, made great strides in strengthening peace, respect for human rights, preserving development, overcoming deception. The main achievement of one organization is to help maintain peace, peacekeeping operations help to save lives. Provides stable security. The threat of a global plague conflict is terrorist extremism. peacekeeping operations, involving some of the active participating countries, improve the time of improvisation. At the same time, decisive steps are taken to avoid multidimensionality.",1,test
1,"end, govern introduce economy political reform stimulate accelerate transform mani sectors. action objective create enabl environment private sector develop pursuit objective 8, ie decent work economic growth.",1,test
0,"take timely emphasize prais build import role administer presid unit state america donald trump play reach an agreement, import signal commit to find last sustain solut import problem.",1,test
0,"Recognizing the catastrophic consequences cannot fail-19 Christian children, including unaccompanied young migrant refugees. Violent children, including horrific child abuse pornography, have also increased in drama.",1,test
2,"Fighting poverty should be stopped. Scene, biggest crisis humanity, main cause famine, soil erosion, unbridled exploitation of natural resources, arms conflict, people displacement, south-north migratory flow continuous human life.",1,test
1,"Unprecedented mobile resources are needed for the emergence of Magnified Public Health. Governing bodies, civil society organs great power fighting Kovid-19. However, the first responsible heroic attempt was health professionals. Therefore, the beneficial genre debate unit would like to take on country-like work. Performance also shows the value of the profession, the enormous human quality, because, unfortunately, the hero often loses the need to contact the person closest to us. However, the continued support of the men’s health care service is a direct disadvantage of the People Family.",1,test
0,"Chrissy Trigger Cowboy-19 Deep Impact Daily Living Love Family, Country Exception. Sensitive response feels against ally led government aura road map review of legislature, formulation of action plan making criminal verdict should promote strong country movement to medium to long term protection.",1,test
2,"a Secretary-gener around initi essenti work. reform a gear to face new challenges, and also promote consensus among the emerging issues of the Member States. I need continued emphasis in support of small island developing states from least developed countries.",1,test
2,connect I would like to call nation nation internship region maintenance authorities tajikistan forwarder glacier central asia.,1,test
2,"grow broad support common african position evidence recent intergovernmental negotiations member state explicitly reaffirm call for correct history wrongfully done africa. vein, I would like to encourage the assembly of a long-standing misappropriation of Africa's request, outlining the ezulwini consensus declaration. look forward to building commitment building progress achieved past order achieving understanding reform section council board meeting.",1,test
1,"The goal of the Success Joint Concert Action is to prevent unresolved conflicts, to resolve peakway crisis conflicts, and to prevent the diplomacy mediator from having an impact based in the first place.",1,test
0,"First of all, I would like to congratulate from the bottom of my heart Mr. volkan bozkir The election of the chairman of the 75th session without the General Assembly, I wish him success in his duties.",1,test
1,"The status of the single-nation global economy Status Wesp 2020 report, confirms the experience of the leader commune, the pandemic expands the unprecedented scope of the health economy crisis.",1,test
1,"throughout 75 years there exist unitary nations, tapestries of common thread collect actions recognize the global challenge the best practice of going beyond basic multilater basis of mutual respect trust. each time demonstrate a true spirit of global partnership reaffirm rules-based commitments.",1,test
2,"Factors influencing climate change, including food security, large-scale resettlement, and social tensions Although the Greenhous ga emiss project will decrease by 6% in 2020, improved air quality has led to a pandemic of economic slowdown in travel bans, global communications 1.5 2 °. C corresponds to the target call agreement. The decade 2010 to 2019, the hottest decade. Private sector management needs to accelerate transit climate change, which will change the economy.",1,test
1,"Global crisis like the Covid-19 pandemic if you want to overcome the challenge again. See the devastating economic situation of Viro feeling the pain of living results. The nation, the material with good resources, is safe. However, the common discouragement suffers from pain, the fear of Covid-19 further intensifies Alradi Bay, does not create a fragile family situation. Some must avoid addressing the major global challenges today, including insecurity, climate change, rising inequality, sparking global divisions, the multifaceted impact of ongoing cooperation, and the achievement of the goal.",1,test
2,The intern's commune must respect basically equal justice and move forward to eliminate weapons of mass destruction.,1,test
2,"The global health crisis has triggered a resurgence of the global economy, the economic crisis began in 2008, al-Raidi is sending a stimulus signal back to the developed world, especially Angola.",1,test
0,The cause of the global crisis also highlights gender inequality.,1,test
2,"The Armenian Cali people clean up the occupied territories of Azerbaijan. Azerbaijani coercion expels the occupied territories. Armenia commits several war crimes criminal human Azerbaijani private sector. Armenia establishes the territory of the criminal and terrorist puppet Rezim, hiding its responsibility to occupy the land.",1,test
2,"“I would like to acknowledge the leadership of excel mr. Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa, President of the Republic of South Africa, Chair of the African Union, African Trade Union Commission. abl set continent strategi place answer pandem take time measure target pool medic suppli member states, african economy secure research vaccine covid-19, among others.",1,test
1,Compaq Cooper Intern Organ Region Partner Institute Elaber Two Strategy Paper New Period Direct Achieve Achievement Success.,1,test
0,"Argentina's administration seals a major deal almost exclusively from external creditors, becoming the first country to face the challenge of the debt restructuring pandemic.",1,test
1,"Careful, event year sustained fracture multiplier could undermine global growth aspirations. Winning signature five years ago 2030 Agenda 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The commit should return to reimplement the attempt. Vanuatu already references Global target nation aspirations, article Vanuatu 2030 - People's Plan. The demand of the year is to ensure that the nation's recovery strategy urgently needs socio-economic environmental ally covd-19 cyclone harold, empower us to develop aspirations for better sustained moving forward. You must keep moving forward, must first return. Increasing frequency of extreme weather event disasters means recovery becomes the new normal.",1,test
2,"efforts, together with trainee partners, met intra-afghan peace negotiations started 12th month, doha, culmin success, ensu success depends on the afghan brother himself. make effort cooper internal commun facilitate dialogue, hope peace will soon be in all of afghanistan, everyone decide to completely renounce violence, accept diversity, different country with equal citizenship.",1,test
1,"The Opera welcome, led by the Brazilian Ministry of Defense, has deepened the political and economic crisis in Venezuela as a result of the nearly 400,000 Venezuelan displacement.",1,test
2,"The Kingdom's hand extends to Iran's peace, open position the past decades, benefit. The Kingdom receives senior officials in Iran, among the Kingdom's efforts to find a way to build a base of good-neighborly relations and mutual respect. The Kingdom welcomes the efforts of the trainees in the Iranian nuclear program deal. Once again, the entire world is exploiting efforts with the Iranian regime to intensify expansionist activities, create terrorist networks, use terrorism, and waste resources of wealth, and the Iranian people's ambitious expansionist project results in chaos, extremism, and sectarianism.",1,test
1,"Well, Sober Truth Secur issu well problem discuss jubile un gen genll Summon effort standardization core value unit us, share memori lesson history, allianc GUID anti-Hitl Coalit co-alianc spirit that can stir up ideological difference prefer sake victori peac Nation earth.",1,test
1,"swearing season excel mr. Burundian President, Burundi's long-awaited presidential election. The peaceful outcome of the election, the need for Tanzania interns to help the new government, the need for social assistance - a citizen of Burundi.",1,test
0,It owes its support to member states through the revival of the World Water Program over the past decades.,1,test
2,"The devastating impact of the crisis in the economy undeniable! The sources of scarcity as a result of the decline in the growth of the economy are foreign exchange shock commodity prices, well exports, overseas remittance investments, much like the economic situation of the world seen since the 1930s.",1,test
1,"For good reason, the first High Week General Assembly Commerce session was held in the Unsu format.",1,test
1,"We, the UN agency, Chan will grow it. Conviction best addresses the joint action of global challenges.",1,test
2,"Kosovo members of the international community, including member countries, will benefit Kosovo, as well as all local staff.",1,test
0,"taking into account the initi secretari general, turkmenistan's national approval plan has been prepared to prevent acute infectious diseases at the state level. turkmenistan social economic operative plan to counter coronaviru pandem develop also adopted.",1,test
0,"Establish the highly contagious nature of the Ove virus, prevent enough counter event today to remove it. Continue vaccination for the last solution. Encourages research pathways around the world to achieve goals. Though promising, Allready Deal Access offers a future vaccine. A true pharmaceutical company must sacrifice enormous financial resources and the profits of the human economy. Hence the need to ensure equitable access to the Covid-19 vaccine in the future, nurturing subject market forces. Accordingly, Wellcome Resolution wha73.1 adopts the General Assembled World Health Organ, the successor member state to provide timely, fair, high quality, safe medicine to all vaccines related vaccines. Country Welcome Covex Facility Initi Launch-Mican Group Eventu Covid-19 Vaccines Buy, Coordinator Global Allianz Vaccine Immune-Guarantee Every Participation Country Fair Equit Axis Axis Vaccine Elok Frame.",1,test
1,"seychel agre needs a collaborator facing the worst economic crisis of his life, the work of many opening up in developed countries.",1,test
2,"session of the six-year general assembly held in the yemen republic suffer a harsh circumstance difficult resulting in an imposed war on peopl houthi coup militia, back iran, supporter region. the militia hatch plan follows the execution golf initiative, implements the mechanism, coincident success understands the nation's dialogue conference, establishes a future republican yemen roadmap, participates the full neat spectrum.",1,test
1,The speech would be complete without the strong appeal to get rid of the weapon. Creates a threat to the existence of the planet Life causes human suffering.,1,test
2,It has taken us 44 years since the Seychelles became independent.,1,test
1,The best way to address multilateralism from the effects of the current global threat. less multi-lateral copper would magnify the problems societies face.,1,test
0,"Therefore, the Aspire Future General Development Center shares the nature of the law of human hormones.",1,test
0,"claims that existing efficacy has, underestimating past viral virus education, failed to produce covid-19 results.",1,test
2,"The signature memorandum understands the Fortesque Metals Group, which is transforming Afghanistan's major green industry, and Energy intends to produce an estimated $ 1 trillion in miner resources for zero-emission steel products with 20,000 megawatts of hydropower products. increase.",1,test
1,"Afghanistan, experiencing an appropriate figure revolved wield sourc economist opportune large young population, well way to strengthen the system governing the rule of law. looked forward to a lot of tri-replica knowledge of the 19-cent model now, irrelevant will soon establish them.",1,test
0,"Kigali amended the Montreal Protocol, adopted four years earlier, to play a major role in reducing the consumption of hydrofluorocarbons. Calls on the Ratifi Kigali amendment, force, the rest ratification possible soon.",1,test
2,"Coinciding with the 75th anniversary of the United States, the world critics' milestone following the outbreak of coronavirus. The celebr achiev, built as the fundamental units of nations, must reflect a challenging face. Today, the conflict has become a regional threat. Influential extremist groups are also growing. Increasing threat of cyber warfare The use of sophisticated weapons in the attack strategy area increases.",1,test
1,"Let's take a lesson for the future of Covid-19 grassroots actions. Like 75 years ago, lesson two World War II universities pledge between nations to resolve disputes together.",1,test
1,"at the outset, I would like to extend my most sincere congratulations, Mr. volkan bozkir elected chairman of the 75th session of the General Assembly, I wish him success in fulfilling his duties.",1,test
0,The Sake environment will sustain the growth of the opportunity-creating economy as the Principal Green Circular Economy needs to move forward.,1,test
2,"Honorary Speech by General Herzegovina General Assembly of the Nation of the Year. However, due to the extraordinary circumstances leading to the health crisis, the opportunity for headquarters gathering, extreme imports through theoretical experience, and continued sessions of the General Assembly of the National Unit continues.",1,test
0,together close cooper realiz dream aspir afghan people.,1,test
2,"Today, in the desperate current circumstances the Covid-19 epidemic has arisen, if we limit the process of proper movement, the possibility among the virtual feel, together thanks to, almost infinitely possible new technology service brought mankind.",1,test
2,"I would like to take this opportunity to call everi member gener assembl perman perman perman secur Council helped us reach the end of sovereignty, democratic unity afghanistan, region of peace, capabl preserve expand gain last 19 years. Democrat stabl prosper Afghanistan exampl collect overcom turmoil definite uncertainties world today. thank you.hi excel antonio guterres, secretary general unit nations.",1,test
0,"""Chad call arm movement Joining the process of achieving the understanding of the last peace, Sudan people are in great need.",1,test
2,"However, Pandem inevitably pushed back development aspirations. resourc redirect fight bet set house, healthcare, water sanit education lag behind people.",1,test
0,rare opportunity to build a better society - a resilient society. opportun jointli address share challenges:,1,test
1,"therefore, use the privilege and reaffirmation of support for the renewal of multilateral cooperation on behalf of the people who serve, multilateralism, solidarity, the effect of war, the preservation of the internal security of peace, the conditions for the inclusion of sustainable development.",1,test
0,"however, success should give us the organ of facts still facing mani challenges. activ intern cooper intern solidary help us deal with the effect successfully. they still prohibit forms of spectrum warfare arm conflict. Today's conflict has taken on a new form, led by a non-state player amorphous network fueling religious terror extremism, including a region of the counties sahel central africa. in addition, climate change, the weather event destruct species that appeared in recent Africa, the migration organ of the crisis must meet the ideals of courageous support ideals found on .",1,test
1,"i would like to start intervening congratulations excel mr. volcano bump elect chairman general assembly, would also like to congratulate secretary general, antonio guterres, nations unity secretariat. celeb 75th anniversary unit nation great assembl peopl world, creat primary object construct multilater way implement system valu code conduct base cooperation, undoubtedly remember year sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook pillar society.",1,test
1,"viet nam pursued foreign policy independence, self-sufficiency, diversified multilateral relations. active reliable partner, internal community responsive member, viet nam attach import work un expand includes the cooper organization. viet nam works to make the member state undemocratic, transparent and efficient.",1,test
1,slovenia share awar biodivers loss urgent global challenge.,1,test
2,"involve everyone, government, social organizations private initiative, scientific knowledge, inspire support development goal principle human right lie core actions.",1,test
0,"1 million rural people across the country play a vital role, regardless of nationality, ensuring equal access to medical treatment. in addition, the thai government also fully supports covid-19 vaccine development strategies. thailand launches sinc vaccination research program termination also encourages trainee partners in collaboration. In view of this, urg cocid-19 vaccin medicin considers access to all to be a 'global public good'. a nation unit must play the role of import.",1,test
1,"The long-standing Palestinian issue without a solution, the creation of an Israeli excuse to build a settlement without any obstacles, is the biggest question mark of the credibility of domestic institutions.",1,test
1,"'unity nation', should discourage tensions nation and pandemic. everi public-private institute should promote cooperation between interns, prepare better deal, future global threat, commit multilateralism. covid-19 general strong global point of view people are afraid think back in think ahead out, hope the world will. achieve effect all-benefit multilater build back better call together ensure a left behind. contain leverage exist innovative partnerships, coordinate responses, refrain from protectionist measures, strengthen inclusion, invest technology economy support social sector in the midst of crises, among others",1,test
2,"Solving crises, especially in the Arab region, requires a unified internal position. Rejecting a position violates sovereign interference in internal affairs. Position seek un-led polit solut address threat face terrorist group houthis, da'esh, al-Qaeda Muslim brotherhood. In this context, the Arab Emir Reiter unit supports the Secretary General's appeal for a global ceasefire.",1,test
2,"Regardless, the County & IMF program offers short-term relief, unless it prevents debt repayment, determines debt forgiveness debt re-ched, redevelopment economy certainly achieves growth targets, debt stock extended compound interest result unpaid debts.",1,test
0,Reform including the Security Council abl collection resolve long-standing conflicts in the world.,1,test
0,"over 75 years of unity nations exist, common wall hangers gather action recognize global challenge the best practical overcom multilateral basis mutual trust. all the while showing a true global partnership spirit reaffirming the commitments of the rule base.",1,test
0,"Create a scientific and industrial clinic with the experience of a Russian doctor, develop a system of drug testing that detects the coronavirus, the world's first satellite-based vaccine.",1,test
2,"thank you all A nation born in World War II, the global consensus calls for international peace. The basis of relations does not correspond to the principles of self-determination of people with equal rights, the force of fear of coercion, the integration of the territory, the unity of the nation in the order of a politically independent nation. This? What are the fundamental values ​​that govern today's online relationships? Has the consumption of political media become a mere conversation?",1,test
2,"Celebrating 75th Anniversary Unit Nation Among Global Epidemics - Pandem Venue Pressure Societies, Com Families. Want to express live lost est nanda condol.",1,test
0,"In fact, the fruit has an unprecedented impact on human life. Global Challenge Require Recommend State Effect Multilator Intern Cooper Central Role Unit Countries.",1,test
1,"deep concern for ignoring the internal ingenuity of law lately. see the current situation needari effort to consolidate objective to strengthen the role of internal law, multilater legal instrument global security system, strict compliance of the state generally accept the rule derived from a statute. The way in which it could be held stable predict global policy mitigate risk conflicts.",1,test
1,"Success depends on companies, national and international, including work scientists, inventors and inventors. Question funds. A citizen with human value must govern and be accountable to investment firms.",1,test
1,"membership in Kosovo's internal organizations, including a nation of unity, would benefit Kosovo, as well as the entire internal community.",1,test
1,The common cause is that the “intern community” develops a general approach. Hence the potential bet of something else.,1,test
0,"The 75-year-old foundation, the unit nation faces a difficult challenging history. must stop the pandemic from working together, mobilize efforts to seek the renewal of stronger multilateral cooperation.",1,test
2,"However, the Middle East weighs down important security policies and undermines secure peoples who undermine stable countries.",1,test
1,"The activity member unit country has made a contribution reinforcawar Sustainable Development Goal. Experimental points require the threat of competent facial challenges of modern powerful institutions. Convincing the internship conflict must resolve the negotiating dialogue. The tool makes it possible to promote peasnecessari humanity. We are concerned about the recent heightened maritime controversy in the South China Sea. Proudly, the first nation uses a compulsory arbitration mechanism, and the Advoca unit nation monasteries the Sea of ​​Law. Call parti involv resolv different dialogu negoti order achiev peacsolution.",1,test
1,"also thanks the state peopl japan, without whose help it will never create the largest hospital region, one of the largest hospital for the treatment of coronavirus in the world. forev lattice deep admir rule big peopl japan, societi exemplifi give servic world.",1,test
2,"african continent, confront cruelti poverti endem cyclic nature pests, see also worri spread disease. Order by the African Union to implement a control-and-prevention strategy, Africa to recommend centers for disease control, the cost of which alone is estimated to be $200 billion. also establish African medic suppli platform improvisation subject to covid-19 rel medic equipment supplies, access is more and more difficult due to strong market demand. respect, welcome partnership unit nation african union address challenge pandemic. countri believ secretary general's call leader group 20 adopt recovery plan developing countries, call well debt suspend forgiveness, result action taken.",1,test
1,Put in the correct and clean drinking water constitution. An important element of cognitive conservation water resources protects biodiversity.,1,test
1,"Botswana is also interested in the development of landlocked countries, small islands, vulnerable member states. The landlocked country, Botswana, is experiencing a good service of border traffic due to the closure of the border pandemic.",1,test
0,"African continent, face the blows cruelti poverti endemic cyclical nature, also see the prevailing worri diseases. order against the African Union to implement the control and prevention strategy, to recommend the prevention of control of African diseases, the cost of the implementation of which is estimated at only $ 200 billion. also set up the African medical supply platform to secure the supply of medical equipment equipped with covid-19, access that is becoming increasingly difficult due to strong market demand. in connection, welcome unit african nation nation partnership addressing challenge pandem. the leading group of calls of the secretary general of countri believ 20 approve the country development recovery plan, call the debt suspension, call the results obtained.",1,test
1,"Finally, the launch of a political operation by the United Nations, as well as the Syrian-led Syrians, led to a successful conclusion.",1,test
0,"overcom pandem achieve goal 2030 agenda require economic, industri social politici aim bring structur chang economies.",1,test
0,"Fight plastic pollution, alarming Tonga Note alarm 12 million tons of plastic waste goes to sea every year. The threat of a place of great interest begins with the process of blocking a single plastic. The problem of the national region, also the global problem, needs a global solution.",1,test
2,"terror remains a pro-industrial challenge, the face of the world poses a real threat to the security of internal servants, it hinders the achievement of the sustainable development of nations. Qatar state reserve efforts active participation trainee region effort addressing phenomenon tackl roots, especi support education millions of children, young women creating job opportunities young men.",1,test
0,"also applaud, assemble safe advice, different Covid-19 focus resolutely well initiates Secretary General Antonio better aim promote global solidarity cooper fight against Covid-19 address impact on livelihood long term living.",1,test
0,"The sustainability of achieving progress to the people of Hang Hewley Safety Secure. The unfortunate pandemic of the global pandemic is caused by illicit smuggled small arms, piracy, smuggled cybercrime. Granted Strict Demand Free Social Impact Already Irregular Small Hand Light Weapons, Trinidad Tobago Refers To Full Commitment Weapons Trade Agreement Visible Illegal Address Minaq Illegal Weapons Trade.",1,test
1,"First of all, would like to thank God Almighty first, enable us to continue the debate on behalf of mankind.",1,test
1,climate change effect annot type violence people suffer. Afghanistan is the 17th worst affected country in the country.,1,test
0,"Uruguay is developing a climate response plan for climate change, addressing risk prevention, mitigating adaptation.",1,test
1,pandem emphasizes the connection and collects weaknesses. Most civil society groups are coming back with licenses to ensure that human development is a greater freedom.,1,test
0,"In addition, the ability to test in the contry. Possible help people republ china australia, you may add an obvious feature. He said, put in place various standard operating procedures to guide the US sector to deal with the global pandemic. twofold object. Number one protects a country that maintains the limits of virus penetration. The second object keeps the economy afloat. Confid viru hack limits contains quarantine stations management.",1,test
0,"chairman g7 + group countri contributes to the totality countri affects the fragility of the conflict, sierra leon remain committed to promote peaceful, just, including societies. among the local action sierra leon taken reception goal ramp fight against corrupt training establishment perman commissioner pek nation cohesion. follow a promise made at the 74th session of the August authority, Expung 55-year law sedation libel crime. journalists work closely, civil society, women's groups, interest groups help strengthen democracy.",1,test
0,"Unsafe seizures frighten people, weaken the health system, shake the socio-economic fabric total, lose millions of jobs. March 21, First Position Case Confirmation Country. The first state emerged, the citizen Already took action.",1,test
2,"For the first time, world leaders from the United Nations General Assembly' 75-year history gather people together. Decis High Level Week Large Virtual Testament Commit Multilator Un.",1,test
2,"complete category least development countri import mileston develop trajectories develop country. Solomon Island transit phase graduation schedule Master 2024. however time Solomon Island passed a three-year review, pass the vulner criterion. vulner stanov glaringli obviou covid-19 exacerbates the pre-existing challenging face Solomon Island has made the road to maintaining a gradual smooth transit end extremely difficult.",1,test
2,"The approach, though tested, is protected for survival, at best, vulnerable.",1,test
1,"crisi necessarili brought misery. time, teach us to use tutorials to help us develop a strong sense of accountability for future challenges. The “new” futur social landscap seems to be based on a single generation, growing a new generation. togeth will share the gener opportunity to join the planning process for the future.",1,test
1,"hope of each action deliv global objective to help find a way to sustain solut pressuring global challenges, climate change, poverty, financing of gender inequality.",1,test
0,"Pandemic, emphasis on food production. Time taken to ensure people are adequately cared for. Special arranged to keep the industry running properly market agricultural product industry issuing full compliant health guidelines. consequently, the health sector economy is still doing better. Despite Covid-19-inducing stagnation in global industrial production, GDP growth rate of 5.24 percent, 7 percent expected in the next fiscal year.",1,test
0,"Likewise, multilateral institutions, the World Trade Organization, the WTO, are in dire need of reform. the wto neutral arbitrator internal trade dispute control mandate enforce approved internal trade laws. Singapore, a multilater trading system based on strong rules of support, belief in the value of the WTO, has made us prosper for a decade. However, the global economy based on the manufacture of agriculture and the design of rules, today requires urgent reform. the world needs the right rules services, especially the intellectual property of services, prepare the age of the numbers before us.",1,test
1,"Large-scale investment investments help the economy survive, first thanks to a disciplinary response from public tax management. The effects of the unhappy crisis, Serbia's Excel results in a strong economy for the first two quarters of the last year, the reason for the end of the year remains a stable economy in Europe.",1,test
2,"Why, start an epidemic, Argentina Focus primarily protects live care sensitive, Siri Emerges Measures Measures fall health system mitig immedi effect prevents epidemics.",1,test
2,"prayers even for the difficult period caused by the COVID-19 pandemic of high level of solidarity the mutually demonstrated region, largely the correct result builds proactive relations serbia builds the previous neighbors of the year. cooper intensive region countri relat civic unit related to the issuance of medical humanitarian aid, also regular supply goods.",1,test
2,"context, 75th session, turkmenistan intends to intensify work elaborate internal legal instrument un field stabil reliabl energi transit.",1,test
0,"would like to start speaking congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir elected president of the general assembly, would also like to congratulate secretary general, antonio guterres, secretariat unit nations. celebr 75th anniversari unity nation great assembly world of people, create object primari construction multilater way implement value system code conduct basis cooperation, undoubtedly rememb year sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook the pillar companies.",1,test
2,"The number seen will take important weeks, and the work of television will not be easy, and millions of people will be technologically literate. There are also cracks, the process is aging, the elderly, the main victims need to remember the virus, help improve work, the space in the house fits, knows enough distance, deep inequality between families does not have access to services, suffers, which reduces human contact create a safe environment.",1,test
1,"assess the way forward achievement agree supports the development of the 2030 goal amid the global pandemic Covid-19, should also reconsider the future desire that the national entity should achieve it. Covid-19 destructive learning the greatest possibility of awakening needs global cooperation, partnership effect firms engaging multilateral confrontation together. Covid-19 recognizes borders, nationality, gender economic status statu nation individual-equal victims. therefore, the unif solution must be found to protect the human.",1,test
1,"unit kingdom stubborn attitude of ignoring call summary territorial dispute aggrgrav dispute call illegal unilater exploitation renewal of non-renewal of natural resource areas, start counter generator assembly",1,test
2,"covid-19 has made the Solomon Islands a closer partner. I made a new friend, the latest ""Philippine Red Cross"", a student Manila with a fantastic work test look. Grated Excel Work Red Cross Continuous Nationals.",1,test
1,"The current situation is complicated by the world, unstable turbulent background geopolitical, geopolitical competition extends to modern threat challenges, especially the spread of coronavirus disease.",1,test
0,"The Solomon Islands first implemented the Voluntary Country Review Report in July 2030. Rejecting technical challenges, abl highlighted date of achievement. Look at the continuation of Solomon Island, the number of children enrolled in the official education system. Second, the proudly established Country Finance Framework Development Underpin Finance Implemented Sustainable Development Goals.",1,test
2,"The Kovid-19 pandemic shows that the global crisis requires joint action and solar cooperation. As the Secretary-General noted, the commitment to ""gather quantum leaps"" must be demonstrated. multi-storey, as well as to improve the economy and society to a level of ""no one leaves"". To achieve this, it is necessary to continue the reform, to make the goal more effective and efficient. We need the unity of the nation!",1,test
0,We need to quickly implement an understanding of what reform means and start a restructuring security council.,1,test
2,"You need to make a progress mani area. alreadi knows what he wants to go, always gets the complex part. Carrisecretari gener reform and development system that wants to work on recognition, contributing countries have improved their determination proposals. However, the loss of time definitely requires building an efficient knowledge of the professionals.",1,test
0,"The socio-economic gap in the glare of domestic crisis demonstrations is intensifying. Better definexpos uniqu financi human resources give strength and capacabil addresses challenges. Pandem Underscore Individual strength is weak without collecting differentiation and commits solidarity. reiter re-emphas live global villag Therefore, you need something else. We conclude that we can never achieve the ideal ""decad action delivery"" 2030 agenda without collecting the multilateralism of commit.",1,test
0,"That, the Pristina Institute for Integrated Action declared the independence of the Kosovo region, Resolution 1244 1999, a violation of the stability of the Republic of Serbia again, as well as the Antir region, in serious danger. Let republ serbia fulli commit find compromise solut issu kosovo metohija. The political response of any interested person also protects the stability of peace in the region.",1,test
0,"strong faith decisive resolution of the means of peace dispute, God thank him, the average effort of the state of Qatar peak signed the peace agreement state unit Taliban movement, doha, February 29, 2020, abl make a exchange prison govern Afghanistan success of the Taliban movement discussed the success held in doha last month.",1,test
0,"Facts Stimulation Package Purpose Rescue Economy Coronavirus Clichy Decision Shape Global Economy — Financial Stability, Socially Comprehensive Low Carbon Economy — Years Come.",1,test
2,"current situation world is getting complicated, volatile turbulence background is growing geopolitics, geoeconomics competition is expanding modern threat challenges especially spread of corona virus disease.",1,test
0,for the first time un gener Assembly ’world 75-year history leader gathered a person. decis continue high level week away virtual testament multilater un.,1,test
2,"yemen war fury yemen still destroys yemen city building, wipes out essential life, threatens safe region, affirms way of resolving yemeni negotiation crisis, outcome of national dialogue, breast initiative, supports safe council resolutions, especially , resolution 2216 2015. affirm the firm position uniti yemen territorial integrity.",1,test
0,"On the occasion of 75th anniversary unit nations, assess past successes and failures. Although faced unit nation ABL solve global problem, become clear multilateral, stop large-scale arm conflict, protect the world arbitrary exercise power. Committed to the multilateral system cooperation framework unit the state of the world to strengthen the nation system, respond to new global challenges, hope for a new generation. Unit Nation Need, Unit Nation Need.",1,test
0,"Wellcome tireless effort UN Secretary-General, Unit Nation Special Agencies, Foundation Program Provid Immediate Long-Term Support Member Country Humanitarian Socio-Economic Kovid-19 Epidemic Affects.",1,test
0,"For the past 75 years, the member state has worked hard to build nation-wide peace and expand cooperation. The task of constraints strengthens the world's largest multi-layered organization, especially in the face of the many opportunities of the 21st century.",1,test
2,"Assess achieving Development Goal 2030 in an agreed-upon way to move forward amid the global COVID-19 pandemic, should the future re-examine what the unit nation needs to achieve it. Covid-19's devastating lessons call for the loudest possible wake-up call for global cooperation, the impact partnership firms face together multilaterally. COVID-19 Identification of borders, nationality, gender Economy Nation Individual - Equal Victim. Therefore, Unifi Solution must protect every human being.",1,test
2,"Strong interest Botswana also supports the special circumstances of a given country. At least develop the land of the country. Develop a small island in the country. Botswana, the land rock country, has a good service of Pandem Experience Charen Crossboard Movement for Border Closure.",1,test
0,"""Such a deadly case on March 23, the attacker Boko Haram Chadian defended security for the province of Boma Lac. powerful reaction launch forces, led the terrorist elements of the lake pure chad boko haram island.",1,test
2,The unity of the nation remains the best hope.,1,test
1,"El Salvador, Tri Time Clean House Relationship problem lies ahead, but, thank goodness, see tangible results. Helping allies, successful less vulnerable indicators, include murders, extortion, robbery, etc. Administration, save the average nine live days murder - nine families mourning death love one. Thank god that much faster than thought possible.",1,test
0,"The economy is weakening, inadequate response domestic communist debt replenishment privilege financing, unemployment debt is rising.",1,test
2,"See the whole SDG is needed, the epidemic will also take us off the LDC graduate track. The design of the current scheme helps in Bhutan Graduate LDC Category 2023.",1,test
2,"Theme time reminder of the multifunctional value of the final framework of the eternal solvent there is the emergence of a global challenge. In fact, the safer nations of the world respond much more safely to the collection of complex threat time.",1,test
1,"graduate specific urban development is an important factor in developing a trajectori to develop the community. solomon island transit phase graduat schedul graduat 2024. nevertheless, by the time solomon island received a 30-year examination, beyond the level of criticism. vulner became glaringli obviou covid-19 makes the preexist face of the island solomon make way to support a slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving, slow-moving.",1,test
0,Contact Would you like to contact the Unit Nation Trainee Region Supporting Device Tajikistan Glacier Accelerator Central Asia.,1,test
