,text,spans
0,"head state government,",0
1,"secretary-gener unit nations, antonio guterres,",0
2,ambassador volkan bozkir ,0
3,"secretari gener unit nations, mr. antonio guterr  excellencies,",0
4,"greet participants, hope sui generi meet one decis step search human world, intern peac security, environ fair balanc relationship nations.",0
5,"congratul mr. president, election. wish success term.",0
6,"appreci ambassador tijjani muhammad-bande’ success mandat difficult times. fellow countryman, emanuel tilman, opportun work office. experi gain work presid preciou life.",0
7,"topic chosen presid challenge. country, real commitment. behalf people, thank pay homag front line express condol lost love ones.",0
9,"prevent combat covid-19, govern work collabor world health organ  .",0
10,establish integr crisi manag center allow coordin work sector involv fight.,0
11,"also import support partner china, australia, cuba, unit state america european union, support human resourc donat equipment, need fight. timor-lest recorded, sinc march, 27 posit cases, 26 recovered. date, one gone intens care.",0
13,take opportun correct address structur weaknesses.,0
14,"may vaccin produc becom global public good. also, spirit collect solidar action, secretari general, dear friend antonio guterres’ respons plan covid-19, variou initi allevi burden debt financ develop worth mentioning. deepli convinc togeth genuin spirit solidarity, humankind overcom challenge.",0
17,"spirit one left behind, must pay attent least develop countri  ldc  and, moreover, vulnerable, fragil countri small island develop state  sid . post-conflict countri spirit solidarity, timor-lest basi establish coalit fragil states, known g7+, whose secretariat base dili.",0
19,"mr. president, ladi gentlemen,",0
22,"head state, develop countri program “a citizen, tree” progress implemented. citizen contribut well-b communities, presid republ awards, annually, sergio vieira de mello award. 2019, prize award civil societi organ reforest affect mangrov areas, order reduc plastic wast pollution, countri adopt recycl polici alreadi small unit process treat plastic bottl order produc relev applic materi  brick build hous chair domest use .",0
23,"indonesian invas occup result prolong conflict seem untractable. un’ engag relevant, becam success story. allow emphas fact process reconcili indonesia countri exampl good neighborhood cooperation, despit pain tragedi past.",0
24,full member unit nation eighteen  18  years.,0
25,"intern recogn sovereign state, give contribut shape updat need un. one distinguish citizens, former president, jose ramo horta, chair high-level panel peac operations. panel aim reinforc effect peac operations.",0
28,"histori languag tie us countri peopl make commun portugues speak countries, cplp. honor presid commun 2 years. concern terrorist violenc befal north mozambique, brother country.",0
29,"time again, face racial sexual violence. strongli defend gender equal right minor indigen peoples. racism unaccept absolut abominable.",0
30,establish diplomat relat isra palestinian states. peac solut coexist two state prone conflict region.,0
31,"warmli congratul excel assumpt presid histor milestone, unit nation commemor 75th anniversari founding.",0
32,"tonga pledg unwav support toward success term, welcom theme session “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism”.",0
33,"allow also pay tribut predecessor, excel mr. tijjani muhammadbande, success spearhead 74th session gener assembl unpreced difficult times.",0
34,applaud oversight dynam leadership excel mr. antonio guterr safe navig oper unit nation coordin member state fight pandemic.,0
35,"context defin health crisi time, tonga stand solidar member states, affect deleteri impact global outbreak, result loss preciou live love ones. express sincer sympathi heartfelt condol member states.",0
36,"connection, express gratitud develop partner intern commun gener financi humanitarian assistance, addit logist support, aptli facilit tonga’ respons remain vigil amidst global pandemic.",0
37,"econom impact affect differ sector economy. accord asia develop bank  adb , tonga encount zero econom growth 2020, however, situat astut manag within, activ financi stimulu prioriti given health-rel activities. regard education, digit divid made evid covid-19, requir acceler solut new norm teach via internet, radio televis consid thousand student tonga affect educ disrupt covid-19 similar pandem future.",0
39,"pacif island forum leader consist echo need urgent climat action communique, everi year, least last 30 years. year mark fifth-year anniversari adopt pari agreement. befit us captur histor moment reaffirm commit achiev goal limit global warm 1.5°c. tonga current review nation determin contribut  ndc , enhanc ndc submit unit nation framework convent climat chang  unfccc  secretariat year.",0
40,"though 26th session confer parti  cop 26  unfccc held glasgow, unit kingdom, postpon 2021, tonga remain commit prepar long-term low emiss develop strategi  lt-led  commun secretariat unfccc cop 26.",0
42,"however, agreement sign grant funding, way public privat partnership fervent support develop partners, continu drive tonga’ sdg7 object composit innov technolog solar, wind, batteri energi storag system coupl network rehabilit increas access electr furthest island tonga.",0
44,"endeavour achiev sdg 14 advanc commit conserv sustain use world’ ocean, sea marin resourc measur taken establish special manag area  sma  initiatives, implement tonga marin spatial plan project. govern approv inclus network 30 per cent marin protect area  mpa  kingdom. tonga progress well relat improv fisheri manag fight illegal, unreported, unregul fish secur ocean contribut food secur well-b country’ economy.",0
46,"countri around world enforc lockdown restrict vari degre fight covid-19, may occur mani “ocean” play pivot role context. accord unit nation educational, scientif cultur organ  unesco , bacteria use detect presenc covid-19 found depth ocean.",0
48,"tonga maintain baselin present determin territori boundaries, establish unit nation convent law sea, remain unchang despit effect sea level rise climat chang modif might ensue. sovereignti must compromis effect. continu support work intern law commiss sixth committee.",0
49,tonga pleas ratifi becom state parti follow convent year:  1  unit nation convent corrupt   2  unit nation convent recognit enforc foreign arbitr award   3  intern labour organ convent no. 182 worst form child labour.,0
50,"acknowledg gratitud posit engag develop partner unit nation agenc includ un offic high repres least develop countri  ldc , lldc small island develop countri  sid   world health organ    un depart econom social affair  undesa   undp  un escap  un offic coordin humanitarian affairs, well non-govern organis  ngo  civil societi organis  cso .",0
52,"honour address august assembl states, milestone, 75th session unit nation gener assembly. allow outset, extend congratul you, mr. president, behalf govern peopl republ trinidad tobago, elect presid session. full support trinidad tobago, acknowledg enorm undertaking, especi continu grappl global pandem affect us all.",0
53,"seventy-f year ago, aftermath second world war, unit nation created, primari object save “succeed gener scourg war, twice lifetim brought untold sorrow mankind.” undoubtedly, desir creat political, social econom condit last peac remain fervent today organisation’ genesi san francisco. 75th anniversari unit nation present ideal opportun reflect introspect whether embrac opportun re-engin reinvigor mechan multilateralism, engend peace, far remain elusive, advanc social progress chart way forward attain sustain development, would benefit humanity.",0
58,"trinidad tobago commend leadership role demonstr world health organ   spearhead effort treat plague. also wish salut commend health care frontlin worker around world continu work tirelessly, sometim signific person sacrifice, ensur affect pandem receiv best avail care.",0
61,"govern trinidad tobago remain attent need children, special emphasi affect pandemic, live extrem poverty, suffer mental health ailments, special need lost love ones. navig challeng times, remain commit ensur child left behind campaign “build back better”.",0
64,"regard, unit nation econom commiss latin america caribbean  eclac , caution debt crisi loom economi latin american caribbean subregion, compound high debt gdp debt servic ratios. despit middl upper-incom statu mani economi region, strong case exist countri deserv special consider debt relief. strongli urg intern commun assist financi support need develop countries, includ middle- incom countri like trinidad tobago, meet develop commitments.",0
66,"trinidad tobago continu support reform secur council. firm view improv significantli global abil effect respond variou secur challenges, current confront intern community. acknowledg seventy-five- year histori unit nation succeed prevent anoth global war, peac remain reach part world. order effective, believ unit nation must adapt ever-chang geopolit environ secur council ought reflect divers characteris truli repres unit nations.",0
67,"member all, thank you.mr. president, honour deliv statement behalf presid republ tunisia, mr. kai saied, excellency’ contribut gener debat seventy-fifth session unit nation gener assembly.",0
68,"name god, compassionate, merciful,",0
69,"mr. presid unit nation gener assembly,",0
70,"secretary-gener unit nations,",0
71,"majesti excellencies,",0
72,give pleasur begin congratul mr. volkan bozkir sisterli republ turkey presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session. wish everi success tasks.,0
73,would also like express great appreci mr. tijjani muhammad- band abl leadership seventy-fourth session.,0
74,also reiter appreci secretary-gener antonio guterr express continu support work initi strengthen role intern organization.,0
76,"reiter occas tunisia’ commit unit nation charter. believ import intern organ readi maintain contribut activ pursuit goals. member secur council, tunisia continu shoulder respons activ particip collect effort consolid intern peac secur  priorit prevent diplomaci  promot polit settlement conflict disput  mitig effect humanitarian tragedi  support intern effort address variou challeng threat pose peoples. tunisia also renew commit particip peacekeep oper around world.",0
77,"resolv palestinian question base resolut intern legitimacy, term refer peac process arab peac initi urgent prioriti main entri point restor region world peac security.",0
81,"import progress issu counter-terror national, region intern efforts, threat persist requir us coordin effort levels. must intensifi cooper counter plan terrorist organ extremist order protect societi people, particular young.",0
82,"may peac god’ merci bless upon you.mr. president,",0
83,"distinguish head state government,",0
84,"mr. secretari general,",0
85,greet respect behalf nation.,0
86,would like thank mr. muhammed-band success work unit nation difficult period.,0
87,"also wholeheartedli congratul former colleague, ambassador volkan bozkir, taken presid gener assembly.",0
88,"ambassador bozkir’ elect post support overwhelm major countri sign person qualiti experienc diplomat politician, well confid turkey.",0
89,"first turkish citizen undertak highest-rank posit within unit nation system, believ ambassador bozkir voic conscienc intern community.",0
90,doubt carri duti fair transpar manner.,0
91,"wish mr. bozkir everi success duty, assum meaning date 75th anniversari found unit nations.",0
92,think hold gener assembl theme “fight covid-19 multilateralism” right decision.,0
93,"turkey, stand commit determin maintain support fight covid-19.",0
94,pandem caught world time difficulti cope variou challenges.,0
95,"globalization, rules-bas intern system multilateralism, alreadi subject discussions, even question impact pandemic.",0
96,"look pictur front us, need accur sincer evalu full empti part glass.",0
97,"empti part glass, need reform multilater organizations, particular unit nations.",0
98,seen ineffect exist global mechan crisis.,0
99,"much true took weeks, even months, secur council, fundament decision-mak bodi unit nations, includ pandem agenda.",0
100,"begin pandemic, scene emerg countri left own.",0
101,"thus, seen right “the world bigger five” thesis, advoc year rostrum.",0
102,fate human cannot left merci limit number countries.,0
105,"must provid council effective, democratic, transpar account structur functioning.",0
106,"likewise, also strengthen gener assembly, reflect common conscienc intern community.",0
107,"look full part glass, unit nation preserv potenti turn point humanity’ quest peace, justic prosperity.",0
108,"consid yet overcom pandem crisis, tri use institut mechan multilater cooper effect way.",0
109,"problem global, local solut save day.",0
110,"turkey, sinc earli day outbreak crisis, call cooper intern platforms.",0
111,"forefront effort combat pandem g-20, turkic council, mikta, organ islam cooper platforms.",0
112,"reach 146 countri 7 intern organ request medic equip assistance, understand “a sure friend known unsur times”.",0
113,"repatri oper carri out, ensur return hundr thousand citizen 141 countries, homes.",0
114,"flights, carri 5,500 foreign sixty-seven countri homes.",0
115,intent carri gouta “corona viru diplomacy”.,0
116,expect still hope compens anyon aid repatri efforts.,0
117,stand victim oppress vein nation essenc “enterpris humanitarian foreign policy”.,0
119,"matter countri produc in, vaccin made ready-for- use offer common benefit humanity.",0
120,"dear delegates,",0
123,"regret unit nation secretari general’ call global humanitarian ceasefire, also support, produc concret results.",0
124,"turkey, look way elimin threat countri humanity, take kind initi required. conflict syria, enter 10th year, continu pose threat secur stabil region.",0
125,"countri struck first seriou blow daesh region, continu fight pkk-ypg terrorist organization.",0
126,"intern community, cannot find perman solut syrian issu without adopt principl attitud decis stanc terrorist organizations.",0
127,approach also essenti ensur safe voluntari return syria.,0
128,"return 411,000 syrian brother sister region liber terrorist organ syria clear indic this.",0
129,"likewise, thank region made secure, succeed prevent million syrian live differ part country, particularli idlib, left homeland.",0
130,turkey host approxim 4 million syrian territori year address needs.,0
131,"also meet need approxim number syrian on-site, region keep control, especi area close border.",0
132,"ultimately, build ten thousand briquett hous idlib elsewher brother sisters.",0
133,"carri activ mean support people, without signific support intern commun intern organizations.",0
134,prioriti us resolv conflict syria basi roadmap endors unit nation secur council resolut 2254  2015 .,0
136,"way syria achiev last peace, preserv territori integr polit unity.",0
137,"goal achieved, determin prevent terrorist organ intend pose threat nation security, well polit uniti territori integr syria.",0
138,"today, countri like turkey, host highest number refugees, save digniti human sacrifices.",0
139,"however, states, includ european countries, unfortun violat right refuge asylum-seekers.",0
140,time unit nation take firm stand violat corrod geneva convent intern human right system.,0
141,"intern commun couldn’t ensur neither coup plotter support made account massacres, human right violat especi mass grave tarhuna.",0
142,turkey countri give concret respons provid support call help legitim govern libya.,0
143,believ perman polit solut libya establish inclus comprehens dialogu conduct libyans.,0
145,"histori forgiv covet yemen’ sovereignty, polit uniti territori integr intent gain influenc region, overlook continu suffer yemenis.",0
146,sincer desir iraq turn area conflict extern power reach posit produc stabil prosper region.,0
147,"support neighbor iraq everi field, would like cooper close especi fight terrorism.",0
148,"expect genuin cooper intern commun iraq concern uproot pkk terrorist organization, nest iraq, case daesh.",0
149,13 01 2021,0
151,"would like reiter call parti abid oblig joint comprehens plan action, significantli contribut region global security.",0
152,"order occup oppress palestine, bleed wound humanity, continu hurt consciences.",0
153,"dirti hand reach privaci jerusalem, sacr place three great religion coexist, constantli increas audacity.",0
154,"palestinian peopl stood israel’ polici oppression, violence, intimid half century.",0
155,"upon reject document surrender, tri impos palestin name “deal century”, israel time acceler attempt “have insid track” help collaborators.",0
156,turkey support plan palestinian peopl give consent to.,0
157,particip countri region game mean anyth beyond serv israel’ effort erod basic intern parameters.,0
158,"countri declar intent open embassi jerusalem, violat unit nation resolut intern law, serv make conflict complic actions.",0
159,"seek solut vain, one-sided, unjust.",0
161,"favor resolv conflict region soon possible, especi nagorno-karabakh conflict, line territori integr sovereignti azerbaijan georgia resolut unit nation osce.",0
162,"kashmir conflict, also key stabil peac south asia, still burn issue.",0
163,step taken follow abolit special statu jammu-kashmir complic problem.,0
164,"favour solv issu dialogue, within framework unit nation resolut especi line expect peopl kashmir.",0
165,distinguish delegates.,0
166,"behind tension exist eastern mediterranean while, countri act understand “the winner take all”.",0
167,futil step exclud countri chanc success.,0
168,"design anyon else’ right, remedi legitim interests, neither eastern mediterranean region.",0
169,"however, cannot turn blind eye violat right countri turkish cypriot fact interest ignored.",0
171,turkey countri compel shoulder burden neg develop eastern mediterranean itself.,0
172,"hand, ignor countri come natur resourc region explain neither wisdom conscienc intern law.",0
173,"prioriti settl disput sincer dialogue, base intern law equit basis.",0
174,"however, would like clearli state never toler imposition, harassment, attack opposit direction.",0
175,would like repeat call establish dialogu cooper coastal countri eastern mediterranean.,0
176,"purpose, would like propos conven region conference, includ turkish cypriots, right interest countri region considered.",0
177,"obstacl solut uncompromising, unjust spoil approach greek cypriot side.",0
178,"ignor intern agreements, greek cypriot side aim make turkish cypriot minor homeland, even complet exclud island.",0
179,"guarantor country, never left turkish cypriot peopl alon right cause, leav future.",0
180,support solut perman guarante secur turkish cypriot peopl histor polit right island.,0
181,year mark 75th anniversari atom bomb hiroshima nagasaki.,0
183,"contrast, architectur arm control suffer signific damag recent years.",0
185,anoth import issu oblig act togeth climat change.,0
186,see human interfer balanc natur lead heavi costs.,0
187,must stop revers bad course.,0
188,"turkey, sincer support effort struggl fulfil obligations, even though almost neglig histor respons point.",0
189,"recent past, host confer parti unit nation convent combat desertification.",0
190,"conduct fruit cooper mani region countries, especi africa.",0
191,also undertook host 16th confer parti convent biolog divers held 2022.,0
192,"now, want draw attent problem threaten humanity, reason consid invisible.",0
193,"racism, xenophobia, islamophobia hate speech reach alarm level.",0
194,"cours pandemic, act violenc vulner people, especi migrant asylum-seekers, acceler xenophobia racism increased.",0
195,muslim expos danger tendenc fuel prejudic ignorance.,0
196,urgent call intern organ take concret step fight mentality.,0
197,"reiter call march 15, day terrorist attack perpetr new zealand muslims, declar unit nation “intern solidar day islamophobia”.",0
198,"second largest intern organ unit nations, organ islam cooper offici recogn day.",0
200,develop countri low-incom countri affect crisis.,0
203,support unit nation secretari general’ roadmap digit cooperation.,0
204,"also set theme first “antalya diplomaci forum”, design address global region issues, “diplomaci digit age”.",0
205,also host unit nation technolog bank least develop countries.,0
206,"also gain signific momentum relat africa, humanitarian histor tie connect close geographies.",0
208,"conclud remarks, would like say strong support multilater continu sensit period pass through.",0
210,"continu effort transform istanbul, one promin citi world throughout history, region hub unit nations.",0
211,wish success 75th gener assembly’ work.,0
212,"wish best health.mr. president, distinguish member gener assembly, ladi gentlemen, introduct",0
213,"behalf govern tuvalu, congratul elect presid 75th unit nation gener assembly. tuvalu full confid leadership. let also take opportun thank presid 74th session, professor mohammed-band success session leadership, despit challengesto work gener assembl due covid-19 pandemic.",0
214,also want express tuvalu’ solidar countri fight covid19 pandemic.,0
215,theme unga75: multilater,0
216,acknowledg intern cooper solidar underway respond covid-19 pandemic. countri benefit assist wish thank bilater multilater develop partner continu help us difficult times.,0
218,"therefor congratul prioriti given multilater theme 75th unga, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0
219,covid19 challeng,0
220,concret multilater respons un need futur want.,0
221,central global recoveri vaccin save live stop transmission. acknowledg import work develop vaccin covid19 welcom effort ensur avail afford vulnerable. respect applaud import work covax facil advanc market commit acceler develop manufactur covid-19 vaccin guarante fair equit access everi countri world.,0
223, 	are inclus leav one behind ,0
224, ii 	protect health wellb ,0
225, iii 	preserv natur marin environ ,0
226, iv 	are low emiss climat smart ,0
228,unit nation place system process place us well face health econom crisis. 2030 agenda sustain develop sdgs. pari agreement. samoa pathway sids. istanbul plan action ldcs. resourc technolog need. requir strong polit commit immedi ambiti action.,0
232,"transform invest respons covid-19 pandem must also serv build resili impact climat change. fail this, put addit debt alreadi exhaust capacities, exacerb climat crise go forward.",0
235,access grant financ debt relief initi crucial aspect overcom poverti fulfil 2030 agenda sdgs. critic provid fiscal space ldc sid recov pandemic.,0
236,"covid-19 pandem global problem need global response. believ need un networked, inclusive, effect multilater would aid effort recoveri continu implement sdgs.",0
237,"regrett howev republ china  taiwan , exemplari respons pandem continu kept un system. taiwan manag pandem well reach level compar oecd countri sever sdg indicators. taiwan much better posit help intern commun build back better.",0
238,"tuvalu strongli support roc’ readmiss un found member un, activ particip un special agenc includ icao.",0
239,"tuvalu remain commit multilateralism. work togeth global famili full respect human rights, togeth build futur respons resili health, econom environ crises.",0
240,thank mr. presid,0
241,"tuvalu mo teatuai pleas deliv statement behalf excel mr. john pomb joseph magufuli, presid unit republ tanzania, could virtual join meet gener assembl owe ongo gener elect campaign country. mr. magufuli stand second presidenti term 28 octob elections. govern tanzania would like emphas resolv ensur year’ campaign elect conduct democratic, peaceful, credible, fair transpar manner, tanzania done elect without fail sinc 1965.",0
242,"unit republ tanzania extend warm congratul you, sir, assumpt presid gener assembly. assur delegation’ full support cooper discharg nobl mandate. also want pay tribut predecessor, excel mr. tijjani muhammad- bande, excel leadership commit demonstr term offic difficult times.",0
243,"great sad juli tanzania lost one great leaders, late benjamin william mkapa, former presid unit republ tanzania, would like take opportun express sincer gratitud everyon condolences.",0
244,"spirit, tanzania urg intern financi institut develop partner devis mechan provid resourc uncondit term complement effort least-develop develop countri fight pandemic, including, limit to, debt-relief measur enabl revamp economi rapidly.",0
245,"mark seventy-fifth anniversari organization, unit republ tanzania would like reaffirm share commit maintain pillar unit nation — peac security, human right development. tanzania’ independ remain remark testament commit organ ideal charter unit nations. unit nation instrument facilit independence. tanzania remain commit member unit nations, special polit decolon committe support liber struggl mani fellow state fight regain independence. years, tanzania also particip promot pillar unit nation matter peac secur work toward sustain futur hope see. proud particip umbrella unit nation peacekeep operations. tanzania current 2,303 peacekeep serv six missions, believ peac secur cornerston socioeconom development.",0
246,"question multilater import tool collabor among nations, unit nation abli demonstrated. enter decad action implement 2030 agenda sustain development, continu believ unit nation ultim right platform address global challenges. implement 2030 agenda sustain development, current govern tanzania accomplish number achiev variou sectors. nation economi grow rate 6.9 per cent, compar 6.2 per cent 2015. however, covid-19 result lower growth project 5.5 per cent, creat need relief support vibrant econom growth projection. inflat rate remain stabl singl digit 4.4 per cent, lowest rate record 3.4 per cent 2019. result, 1 juli world bank announc upgrad tanzanian economi least-develop lower-middle-incom status, five year nation develop vision’ project 2025. mileston result differ nation measures, mainli focus clamp corruption, improv public administr proper manag public natur resources. also made possibl government’ reform partnership variou develop partners. therefor would like express sincer gratitud unit nation special agencies, fund programm develop partners.",0
247,"twenty-f year adopt beij platform, inequ still loom larg world. despit challeng remain, tanzania abl put place variou nation framework guid implement measur ensur gender equal empower women girls, includ mainstream gender equal object govern polici programmes. term promot right education, govern also overseen major construct rehabilit learn teach facilities, well provis free educ primari secondari schools. rais primari school enrol 1 million student 2015 1.6 million 2020. consequently, number student enrol secondari school also increas 1.6 million 2015 2.1 million year.",0
249,"remind credibl unit nation rest well-repres respons secur council. respect, reiter common african position, elabor ezulwini consensu sirt declaration.",0
251,"tanzania reiter posit support stable, peac prosper democrat republ congo. commend effort made far unit nations, sadc region whole intern commun make happen. regard, also want stress continu pragmat engag crucial order align sadc’ posit reconfigur forc intervent brigade, maintain effect defenc capability, oper effect command-and-control unit.",0
252,tanzania alway express view econom embargo impos cuba 1960 outliv relevance. encourag parti engag construct dialogu aim achiev total removal.,0
253,"question palestine, continu support resolut conflict israel palestine, hing two-stat solut live side side peac security.",0
254,"would like conclud pledg assembl unit republ tanzania continu render necessari support unit nation ensur success import global agendas, includ promot equal self-determin nations, peac security, human rights, development, implement 2030 agenda unit nation reform processes. again, reiter commit multilater call member state embrac better world. god bless unit republ tanzania, god bless africa, god bless unit nation god bless us all.i honour oral present written address excel mr. yoweri kaguta museveni, presid republ uganda, gener debat gener assembl seventy-fifth session.",0
255,"“i wish congratul you, sir, elect presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session, assur uganda’ full support. would like thank excel mr. tijjani muhammad- band except leadership assembl seventy-fourth session, particularli coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandem period. would also like pay tribut secretary-general, excel mr. antonio guterres, dedic commit work unit nations, express solidar countri fight covid-19 pandem condol live lost.",0
256,"“uganda, like mani countri around world, respond onslaught pandemic. view covid-19 fearless foe human life confronted. approach deal priorit protect human lives. first pragmat step ensur countri respond adequ mitig impact pandemic, govern develop guidelin standard oper procedur align standard response. combin systemat testing, tracing, quarantin treatment restrict movement contact, aim suppress transmiss virus. combin measur widespread media campaign sensit public. govern also continu strengthen nation health system part commit univers health coverag ensur health facil handl covid-19 patient well equip necessari suppli order support effici effect case management. deliber target decisions, uganda abl prevent mass coronaviru infect within country. govern also priorit sustain recoveri pandem nation covid-19 respons strategy.",0
258,"“we commend intern commun support given far deal pandemic. decis april intern monetari fund, world bank group, group 20 immedi suspend 76 countries’ debt-servic payment one year laudable. however, agre suspens debt enough ensur respond recov covid-19 pandem navig devast social econom effects. call action comprehens debt- relief packages, particularli debt cancel multilater bilater creditors, order enabl us obtain fund need covid-19 pandem response.",0
259,"“i glad inform member state key sector uganda’ economy, especi agricultur inform commun technology, endur covid-19 pandemic. product level increased, exceed pre-covid-19 levels. coffe export continu surg despit coronaviru pandemic, figur april 2020 show growth compar previou year. uganda abl stand weather storm appropri action took government, includ pursu right polici promot private- sector-l growth.",0
260,"“progress regist implement 2030 agenda sustain development, reflect second voluntari nation review report, present 2020 high-level polit forum sustain development. regard, uganda adopt third five- year nation develop plan 2020 21 2024 25 theme “sustain industri inclus growth, employ wealth creation”. plan emphas key intervent broad transform categori implementation, includ environment protection, govern industrialization, work close develop partner relev stakeholders, particularli context build back better work recoveri covid-19 pandemic. priorit elimin silo approach servic deliveri enhanc synergi across sector among actor implement nation sustain develop prioriti policies.",0
262,"“a unit nation commemor seventy-fifth anniversary, uganda join commun nation acknowledg legitimacy, conven power, norm impact undeni success share vision achieve. much, however, remain done order strengthen intern cooper achiev three interrel interdepend goal global region peac security, sustain econom develop advanc human right dignity.",0
263,"“thi seventy-fifth anniversari year also mark end third intern decad erad colonialism, time 17 non-self-govern territori remain book regard implement declar grant independ coloni countri peoples. unresolv question western sahara remain singl issu stand way total erad coloni african continent. uganda therefor join intern commun underscor commit purpos principl enshrin charter unit nations, includ equal right self- determin peoples.",0
266,"“uganda continu support advanc peac secur effort region. fulli awar prosper develop countri region beyond inextric link peac security. remain activ involv region initi igad, eac, intern confer great lake region au, encourag progress see. continu support peac effort frameworks, south sudan, polit transit sudan stabil effort somalia.",0
267,"“the threat terror remain secur challeng time. mind covid-19 number measur taken govern around globe may help suppress activ violent extremist terrorist groups, new normal creat crisi also play hand violent extremist terrorist groups. uganda remain commit support global region counter-terror efforts. region, terrorist group al-shabaab, boko haram, islam state iraq sham, al-qaida alli democrat forc continu threat common secur development. neutral requir cooper firm responses.",0
268,"“finally, later year import elect held forjudg intern court justice, one organization’ key organs. uganda accept court’ compulsori jurisdiction, without reservations, long ago march 1963, new member unit nation family. proud judg julia sebutind uganda, first african woman court one serv distinction, re-elect second final term. commend judg julia sebutind gener assembl request support re-elect second final mandat intern court justice.”distinguish mr. president,",0
269,excellences! ladi gentlemen!,0
270,"behalf ukrain honour congratul you, mr. bozkir, elect presid 75th un gener assembl session. steer assembl hard time even tradit intern instrument format may work. want assur ukrain continu reliabl partner unit nations, even despit fact separ thousand kilometers.",0
271,"year ago, new york discuss threat futur world, devis plans, made forecasts. could anyon imagin back year 2020 would stage crush test planet? countri lock borders, summer olymp game postponed, session un gener assembl held online. year ago, would say script apocalypt blockbuster, realiti 2020.",0
272,"uneasi world time make sens recal feel leader unit nation found state 75 year ago. human surviv horrend war. world resembl soldier stroll across blood-drench field minut explos stopped. emaciated, hollowed, loss alive.",0
273,"second world war becam “global earthquake” claim ten million lives. yet human manag recover. 24 octob 1945, confer san francisco, un found nations, ukrain among them, put asid contradict got unit build better world together.",0
274,"undoubtedly, 75 year numer achiev made term econom development, poverti eradication, minim war cataclysm could happen unit nations. human conquer space, even hold un session remot thank modern technologies.",0
275,"speak languag technologies, un becom softwar save world critic errors.",0
276,"time, acknowledg system get glitch more. attack new “bugs” “viruses”. contain alway efficient.",0
277,"say head state 21st centuri russian feder annex crimean peninsula. head state, contain russia’ militari aggress donba seventh year row.",0
278,"feel would founder unit nation have, known 75 year later, center europe, would war? crimea human right would flagrantli violated, persecut ukrainian crimean tatar would take place. militar peninsula water area around would build up, would undermin secur balanc black sea region. would chang someth un charter mechan unit nation known 75 year later, result war donbas, would 14,000 kill almost 1.5 million peopl would lose homes?",0
281,"grate intern partner help support difficult way. hope uniti intern commun cause. i’m convinc unit nation play import role restor sovereignti territori integr ukraine, along respect intern law. need improv exist mechan end.",0
282,"unaccept sovereignti independ state violat one perman member un secur council. ultim prove mechan 1945 work today full extent. bring depreci secur council. ukrain activ particip reform. bodi becom representative, balanced, transpar efficient. unit nations’ vest interest effect instrument somebodi violat abus veto right statu perman member.",0
284,"also call support updat resolut “situat human right autonom republ crimea citi sevastopol, ukraine” present gener assembl end year.",0
285,"import — case crimea donba becom customari element intern landscap reports, confer protocol statement anniversari occup taken suffici form intern reaction.",0
286,"contrari — wound center europ bleeding, pain felt world. recip effici treatment de-occup crimea donbas.",0
287,"understand 2014 messag heard un everi year. exactli biggest problem lies. ukrainian case  global threat planet, report get longer longer everi pass year.",0
288,"last year’ assembl session, said: “there notion somebodi else’ war. planet big anymore”.",0
289,prove mh17 case. prove environment threats. problem access food drink water.,0
290,"prove inform threat world. disinform fake news influenc world markets,stock exchang even elector processes.",0
291,"ukraine, one countri 2014 activ counteract propaganda inform attacks, stand readi initi establish kyiv headquart intern offic counter disinform propaganda.",0
292,"fact planet big anymor final prove year 2020. fire australia shook world. down boe 737, ukrainian aircraft carri citizen ukraine, canada, iran, afghanistan, unit kingdom sweden struck territori iran.",0
293,"cours — covid-19 pandemic, spread lightn speed. mankind even manag googl “covid” “wuhan” coronaviru alreadi knock door everi house.",0
294,"consid also this. coronaviru spare one. care whether countri nuclear weapon level gdp, whether state part g7 g20, whether christianity, islam, judaism religion profess country. matter noth covid.",0
295,today come understand fight covid-19 take one year. hardli last pandem see through. emerg exist crisi stronger well prepared.,0
296,"test countries. race limit resourc exacerb problems. need sincer dialogu activ solidarity, valu multilater lies.",0
297,"overcom togeth seriou econom crisi last years. expect figur gdp fall sometim double-digit. statist interest select experts. reduct qualiti life billion people, loom rise threat hunger millions.",0
298,"unit effort countri must time. ukrain cannot stand asid readi make contribut ensuring, particular, food secur mankind.",0
299,"everi year call action instead talk get louder louder gener assembly. testifi crisi unit nations, secur architecture, health humanity, economi world whole find in.",0
301,realli want start speech 2021 say 75th gener assembl session come histori exampl return activ multilater effici intern solidarity.,0
302,session recal purpos principl un charter start perman unwaveringli follow them.,0
303,session reviv truth fundament un established: don’t planet b. live once.,0
304,"exactli futur want, exactli un need. sincer wish you, mr. president, achiev goal, along stakeholders. convinc 193 un member states.",0
305,"thank attention.presid gener assembly, ambassador volkan bozkir,",0
306,"nation repres repres intern organizations,",0
307,"seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation find us amid crisis, which, undoubtedly, look differ disast caus second world war, also forc us reimagin futur order build achiev prevent futur crises, economic, health, climat together.",0
309,commemor anniversari also challeng us futur want countri societi beyond crisis.,0
310,"gener assembly, mr. president, uruguay wish emphas road travelled, way pandem next 75 years, alway find us side — multilater — support quest solut protect multilater legal framework aspect intern life — health, environment, trade migration.",0
311,"uruguay’ access membership month ago allianc multilateralism, initiative, launch germani france, seek uphold multilater order, anoth sign country’ commit cause.",0
312,"uruguay support role world health organ role unit nation system coordin global respons pandemic, understand intern organ play fundament role coordin guid best possibl solut current critic situat coordin manag medium- long-term impacts.",0
313,"country, mr. president, adher call achiev global equit access health technologies, medicin vaccin share knowledge, intellectu properti data necessari detection, prevention, treatment respons covid-19.",0
314,"country’ respons pandem focus multidisciplinari approach cover social, econom epidemiolog aspect monitor honorari scientif advisori group proud. approach base citizens’ respons use freedom, solidar generosity, which, togeth strong resili health system, allow us resum work educ cultur activities.",0
316,"begin decad action deliv sustain develop goals, move word action essenti end poverty, protect environ improv live condit world’ population.",0
317,"unit nation promot agenda 2030 and, despit consider current challenges, remain main guid achiev sustain development.",0
318,"uruguay work hard sinc recognit effect compliance. countri continu honour histori reduc inequalities, well commit decent work base invest growth.",0
320,"scenario, paradox countri classifi high-incom develop countries, uruguay, access major sourc intern cooper favour line credit. continu promot revis classif graduation, base sole per capita income.",0
321,"regard, wish underscor support eclac develop multi-factor approach. sustain develop concern care environment. that, too, pandemic, challeng countri cannot face alone, requir collect meet challeng face humankind.",0
322,uruguay continu take step direct recent establish ministri environ demonstr issu prioriti government.,0
323,"mr. president, uruguay wish reiter support pari agreement climat chang firm commit object area.",0
325,"understand product efforts, good experi effect effici management, subject account light current challenges, receiv greater attent recognition.",0
327,"countri would like reaffirm assembl support secretary-general’ road map digit cooperation. uruguay understand initi prosper contribut effect fulfil sdgs, digit technolog must enabl us bridg digit connect divide, among countri within countri alike.",0
328,"also essenti promot respect human right networks, protect privaci person data, well access inform freedom expression, public private.",0
329,"lastly, necessari work digit security, broad particip state actors, privat sector civil society.",0
330,"regard secretary-general’ initiatives, would like focu moment call ceasefir — global ceasefir — endors country.",0
332,"countri strongli commit unit nation peacekeep forces, main contributor troop per capita worldwide. clear demonstr nation commit offer made govern establish laboratori increas medic diagnost capabl within unit nation peac oper respons pandemic.",0
333,"context, worth recal uruguay’ call protect hospit school attack conflict zone need support secur council resolut matter.",0
334,"uruguay reiter nation commit human right agenda continu activ uphold human rights, includ protect right children, plight civilian conflict situat women’ rights, promot respect right among actor intern community. regard, continu ensur effect implement advocaci mechan unit nations.",0
335,"would like make special mention vulner section population, particularli affect pandemic, women victim domest violence, particular concern uruguay. prompt us develop specif polici respond situation. cannot forget migrant intern displac persons, also doubli vulner pandemic.",0
336,"underscor open polici country, welcom voluntari migration, base valu democraci equal law respect right people, regardless origin.",0
337,"lastly, would like underscor role intern crimin court import deterr effect mass genocid atroc perpetrators. uruguay reiter commit intern justic system and, particular, support intern crimin court independ imparti judici institut central role fight impun pursuit justice.",0
338,"govern commit combat insecur crime work hard so. also continu cooper unit nation fight terrorism, transnat organ crime link two.",0
340,"uruguay particularli interest increas relev overal effort unit nations, particular gener assembly, well member state ensur potenti effect participation.",0
341,"uruguay alway sought contribut overal transpar function unit nation organs, includ work unit nation secur council.",0
342,"today’ world, possibl increas effici effici organ appreciated, cut oper cost increas transpar account regard spending.",0
344,world leader must take charge.,0
345,thank much.it profound honor address unit nation gener assembly.,0
346,"75 year end world war two found unit nations, engag great global struggle.",0
347,wage fierc battl invis enemi — china viru — claim countless live 188 countries.,0
348,"unit states, launch aggress mobil sinc second world war.",0
349,rapidli produc record suppli ventil — creat surplu allow us share friend partner around globe.,0
350,"pioneer life-sav treatments, reduc fatal rate 85 per cent sinc april.",0
351,mass produc advanc deliv immedi upon arrival.,0
352,"distribut vaccine, defeat virus, end pandemic, enter new era unpreced prosperity, cooper peace.",0
353,"pursu bright future, must hold account nation unleash plagu onto world: china.",0
354,"earliest day virus, china lock travel domest allow flight leav china infect world.",0
355,"china condemn travel ban country, even cancel domest flight lock citizen homes.",0
356,"chines government, world health organ -- virtual control china — fals declar evid human- to-human transmission.",0
357,"later, fals said peopl without symptom would spread disease.",0
358,unit nation must hold china account actions.,0
359,"addition, everi year china dump million million ton plastic trash oceans, overfish countries’ waters, destroy vast swath coral reef, emit toxic mercuri atmospher countri anywher world.",0
360,"china’ carbon emiss nearli twice u.s. has, it’ rise fast.",0
361,"contrast, withdrew one-sid pari climat accord, last year america reduc carbon emiss countri agreement.",0
362,attack america’ except environment record ignor china’ rampant pollut interest environment.,0
363,want punish america stand it.,0
364,"unit nation effect organization, must focu real problem world.",0
365,"includ terrorism, oppress women, forc labor, drug trafficking, human sex trafficking, religi persecution, ethnic cleans religi minorities.",0
366,america alway leader human rights.,0
367,"administr advanc religi liberty, opportun women, decrimin homosexuality, combat human trafficking, protect unborn children.",0
368,also know american prosper bedrock freedom secur world.,0
369,"three short years, built greatest economi histori — quickli again.",0
371,stood decad china’ trade abuses.,0
372,revit nato allianc countri pay much fair share.,0
373,"forg histor partnership mexico, guatemala, hondura el salvador stop human smuggling.",0
374,"stand peopl cuba, nicaragua, venezuela righteou struggl freedom.",0
375,"withdrew terribl iran nuclear deal impos crippl sanction world’ lead state sponsor terror. jsepj obliter isi caliph 100 per cent, kill founder leader, al-baghdadi, elimin world’ top terrorist, qasem soleimani.",0
376,month achiev peac deal serbia kosovo.,0
377,reach landmark breakthrough two peac deal middl east — decad progress.,0
378,"israel, unit arab emirates, bahrain sign histor peac agreement white house, mani middl eastern countri come. come fast know it’ great them, it’ great world.",0
379,groundbreak peac deal dawn new middl east.,0
380,"intend deliv peac agreement shortly, never optimist futur region. blood sand. day hope over.",0
381,"speak, unit state also work end war afghanistan — bring troop home.",0
382,"america fulfil destini peacemaker. peac strength. stronger ever before, weapon advanc level like we’v never before, like frankli we’v never even thought before, pray god never use them.",0
383,"decades, tire voic propos fail solutions, pursu global ambit expens people.",0
385,"president, reject fail approach past — proudli put america first, put countri first. that’ okay, that’ doing.",0
386,"suprem confid next year, gather person, midst one greatest year histori frankly, hopefully, histori world.",0
387,"thank you, god bless all. god bless america. god bless unit nations.",0
388,distinguish presid volkan bozkir!,0
389,distinguish secretary-gener antonio guterres! distinguish head delegations!,0
390,ladi gentlemen!,0
391,seventy-fifth session gener assembl held first time histori unit nation complet new format — onlin videoconferenc due coronaviru pandemic.,0
392,global catastroph observ planet last hundr years.,0
395,"context, us deepli realiz need consolid mutual effort governments, parliaments, civil societi institut  strengthen principl common respons  coordin intern partnership accordingli  increas statu capacity, well expand compet world health organization.",0
396,"goal jointli creat fair global system ensur basic rights, freedoms, health well-b everi human being.",0
397,"regard, propos develop un auspic intern code voluntari commit state pandemics.",0
398,document reflect state’ commit citizen intern partners.,0
401,special fund set end.,0
402,would like take opportun express deep gratitud friend partner gener support time trials.,0
403,"fulli support intern community’ effort effect combat pandemic, includ develop widespread use essenti drug vaccines.",0
404,also welcom propos secretary-gener antonio guterr hold summit press issu food secur current context crisis.,0
405,dear particip gener assembly!,0
406,"three year ago, speak high rostrum unit nations, state uzbekistan firmli determin implement radic reforms.",0
407,"today, process democrat transform countri becom irreversible.",0
408,"last year’ parliamentari elect demonstr grow polit activ popul parties, role civil societi institut influenc media.",0
409,gender equal polici becam prioriti us.,0
410,role women public administr growing. new parliament number women deputi doubled.,0
411,human right situat also complet changed. forc child labour fulli abolished. nation human right strategi adopted.,0
412,"respons call unit nation reduc number stateless persons, year alon 50,000 compatriot grant uzbek citizenship.",0
413,situat religi freedom countri also improv dramatically.,0
414,strengthen inter-ethn harmoni inter-religi toler constant import task us.,0
415,uncompromis fight corrupt reach new level.,0
416,"regard, import legisl adopt independ anti-corrupt agenc established.",0
417,econom reform dynam continu country.,0
418,"first time, publicli declar determin reduc poverty.",0
419,achiev develop entrepreneurship job creation  improv invest climat busi environ  build modern infrastructur provid target social assist popul train peopl new professions.,0
421,youth parliament agenc youth affair oper uzbekistan.,0
422,august samarkand intern forum youth right success held auspic unit nations.,0
423,would like take opportun call support uzbekistan’ initi adopt unit nation convent right youth.,0
425,dear friends!,0
426,fundament chang take place region central asia.,0
427,"manag creat atmospher good neighbourliness, mutual trust, friendship mutual respect among state region.",0
428,"common achiev consult summit central asian head state, put forth initi 72nd session unit nation gener assembl regularli held sinc then.",0
429,"past four years, uzbekistan’ bilater trade neighbour state grown almost five-fold.",0
430,day trial countri stand leav one anoth alone.,0
431,"today, central asian state face import strateg task.",0
432,"ensur deep integr region global economic, transport transit corridors.",0
433,"regard, propos establish region centr develop transport commun auspic unit nations.",0
434,"today, effect secur cooper maintain central asia.",0
435,unit nation global anti-terror strategi success implemented.,0
436,favour conduct intern confer ten-year result forthcom prospect joint plan region strategy.,0
438,readi hold intern forum “central asia crossroad world civilizations” ancient citi khiva 2021 cooper unesco.,0
439,dear particip session!,0
440,see afghanistan integr part central asia.,0
441,tashkent high-level confer afghanistan march 2018 mark new stage mobil intern community’ effort resolv afghan problem.,0
442,fulli support peac talk among afghan polit forc launch year citi doha september.,0
444,believ issu ensur peac stabil afghanistan must remain constant focu unit nations.,0
446,"regard, import work principl “from instabl destruct — peac prosperity”.",0
448,main task commiss must promot facilit econom social develop afghanistan.,0
449,"distinguish head state government! anoth acut problem time relat global climat change. today, everi countri feel neg effect process.",0
450,"unfortunately, neg develop also pose great threat sustain develop central asia.",0
451,would like draw attent devast effect dri aral sea.,0
452,aral sea region becam centr environment tragedy.,0
453,"country’ initiative, unit nation multi-partn human secur trust fund aral sea region established.",0
454,hope fund serv base platform intern commun provid practic assist popul live stress ecolog zone.,0
455,propos adopt special resolut un gener assembl declar aral sea region area ecolog innov technologies.,0
456,would expedi mark date adopt import document intern day protect restor ecosystems.,0
458,problem becom especi acut condit pandemic.,0
459,"voic poverty, get even alarm today, must rais concern entir world commun us.",0
460,"regard, propos set issu poverti erad fight poverti one main topic next session unit nation gener assembl hold global summit issues.",0
461,clear us socio-econom landscap post-pandem world complet different.,0
462,need work basi new approach close cooper common threat secur sustain development.,0
463,central role unit nation coordin intern structur need strengthened.,0
464,"uzbekistan alway stand readi develop wide-rang mutual benefici partnership countri world, well practic dialogu unit nation institutions.",0
465,"thank attention.mr. president,",0
466,peac you!,0
467,"offer cordial greet you, mr president, deleg take part signific seventy-fifth session unit nation gener assembly. particular, greet secretari general, mr antonio guterres, particip head state government, follow gener debate.",0
468,seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation offer fit occas express holi see’ desir organ increasingli serv sign uniti state instrument servic entir human family.,0
470,"faced, then, choic two possibl paths. one path lead consolid multilater express renew sens global co-responsibility, solidar ground justic attain peac uniti within human family, god’ plan world. path emphas self-sufficiency, nationalism, protectionism, individu isol  exclud poor, vulner dwell peripheri life. path would certainli detriment whole community, caus self-inflict wound everyone. must prevail.",0
472,"along lines, think effect pandem employment, sector alreadi destabil labour market driven increas uncertainti widespread robotization. urgent need find new form work truli capabl fulfil human potenti affirm dignity. order ensur dignifi employment, must chang prevail econom paradigm, seek expand companies’ profits. offer job peopl one main object everi business, one criteria success product activity. technolog progress valuabl necessary, provid serv make people’ work dignifi safe, less burdensom stressful.",0
473,"call chang direction. achiev this, alreadi possess necessari cultur technolog resources, social awareness. chang direct require, however, robust ethic framework capabl overcom “today’ widespread quietli grow cultur waste”.",0
475,"fact pain see number fundament human right day continu violat impunity. list violat inde lengthy, offer us frighten pictur human abused, wounded, depriv dignity, freedom hope future. part picture, religi believ continu endur everi kind persecution, includ genocide, beliefs. christian victim this: mani brother sister throughout world suffering, forc time flee ancestr lands, cut rich histori culture.",0
476,"also admit humanitarian crise becom statu quo, people’ right life, liberti person secur protected. indeed, shown conflict worldwide, use explos weapons, especi popul areas, dramat long-term humanitarian impact. convent weapon becom less less “conventional” “weapon mass destruction”, wreak havoc cities, schools, hospitals, religi sites, infrastructur basic servic need population.",0
477,"more, great number peopl forc leav homes. refugees, migrant intern displac frequent find abandon countri origin, transit destination, depriv chanc better situat life families. wors still, thousand intercept sea forcibl return detent camps, meet tortur labour, exploit degrad job deni wage. intolerable, yet intent ignor many!",0
480,"“in light present circumstances... nation enabl meet greatest need moment reduction, forgiveness, debt burden balanc sheet poorest nations”.",0
481,intern commun ought make everi effort put end econom injustices.,0
482,"“when multilater credit organ provid advic variou nations, import keep mind lofti concept fiscal justice, public budget respons indebted and, all, effect promot poorest, make protagonist social network.”",0
483,respons offer develop assist poor nation debt relief highli indebt nations.,0
484,"“a new ethic presuppos awar need everyon work togeth close tax shelters, avoid evas money launder rob society, well speak nation import defend justic common good interest power compani multinationals.”",0
485,"fit time renew architectur intern finance. mr. president,",0
486,"five year ago, opportun address gener assembl person seventieth anniversary. visit took place time mark truli dynam multilateralism. moment great hope promis intern community, eve adopt 2030 agenda sustain development. month later, pari agreement climat chang also adopted.",0
487,"yet must honestli admit that, even though progress made, promis made five year ago. reiter “we must avoid everi temptat fall declarationist nomin would assuag consciences. need ensur institut truli effect struggl scourges”.",0
489,"sure, growth integr ecolog sensit desir action posit step.",0
490,"“we must place burden next gener take problem caus previou ones... must serious ask polit alloc honesty, respons courage, human, financi technolog resourc mitig neg effect climat change, well help poorest vulner popul suffer most.”",0
492,"million children present unabl return school. mani part world, situat risk lead increas child labour, exploitation, abus malnutrition. sad say, countri intern institut also promot abort one so-cal “essenti services” provid humanitarian respons pandemic. troubl see simpl conveni becom deni exist human life solut problem must solv mother unborn child.",0
493,"urg civil author especi attent children deni fundament right dignity, particularli right life schooling. cannot help think appeal courag young woman, malala yousafzai, speak five year ago gener assembly, remind us “one child, one teacher, one book one pen chang world”.",0
495,"one goal advanc women. year mark twentyfifth anniversari beij confer women. everi level society, women play import role, offer singular contribut courag promot common good. mani women, however, continu left behind: victim slavery, trafficking, violence, exploit degrad treatment. them, forc live apart families, express fratern closeness. time, appeal greater determin commit fight heinou practic debas women, humanity, silenc lack effect action becom accomplic them.",0
496,"must ask princip threat peac secur - poverty, epidemics, terror mani other - effect counter arm race, includ nuclear weapons, continu squander preciou resourc could better use benefit integr develop peopl protect natur environment.",0
499,"addition, strife-ridden world need unit nation becom ever effect intern workshop peace. mean member secur council, especi perman members, must act greater uniti determination. regard, recent adopt global cease-fir present crisi nobl step, one demand good part continu implementation. would also reiter import relax intern sanction make difficult state provid adequ support citizens.",0
500,god bless all!,0
501,"thank you, mr. president.mr. president, excellencies, distinguish deleg friends,",0
502,"haunt question remain: would vaccin avail cheapli univers peopl world over? would distribut skew within, across countries, like aris deafen roar that: “onli rich live matter?” good intent unit nation specialis agenc world health organis may nibbl away inequ skew outcom impact like margin unless enforceable, intern rules-bas compact countri major pharmaceut compani deliv univers afford fruit scienc human ingenuity. cannot usual result corpor profit ahead people’ lives, livelihoods, social solidarity, security.",0
503,"even if, instanc covid-19, intern commun rise challeng confirm faith good intent without practic work illusion, would episod respons leav pre-exist global order place next, inevitable, pandem arises? irrat danger cycl reconfigrur global consensu mere “build back better” build back optim enduringli humanity’ sake.",0
504,"right reason matur reflect teach past 50 year domin human civilization, append off-shoots, explos individu freedom engend huge enlarg personal, financial, technological, social spaces. atomis individu elev appotheosi progress  social solidar becom frayed, tattered, diminish public good. so, along come pandem atomis individu reli prudent collect good behaviour neighbor stay healthy. circl cannot easili squar individualistic, dog-eat-dog social order  and, metaphorically, hell broken loose.",0
505,"thus, intern societies, ought current alter condition, build social individual, atomis one  social individu necessarily, ground requisit social solidarity. across nations, too, must initi build fresh compact endur solidarity, caribbean commun  caricom , done much success, despit limit resources. unit nations, specialis agencies, local construct ambitious, renew global compact, world government, genguin commun nation bona fide multilateralism, ground intern law. mere technic exercis profoundli polit one first order revitalis compact efficaci fashion fertilis soil genuin commit among nations. let us thu lift lift human higher!",0
506,"regard, power state must roll back unilateralist, unwholesom prejudicial, constraint weaker nations. list long includes: unilateralist sanction  weaponis trade, bank financi system  misus abus so-cal “blacklists” develop countri develop one  unilateralist termin correspond bank relat pure spurious, hypocritical, ground  break intern law, willy-nilly, serv narrowli nationalist interest issue, includ existenti matter climat chang  releg small island develop state expend margin global polit economy.",0
507,"absurd contradict employ human right mantra guis unilater action would wil depriv million people, live countri near far, right digniti develop deploy debilit foreign polici tools. immens suffer peopl syria, result conflict choose, geopolit forc exert influence, stand prime exampl paradox humanitarian intervention. similar fashion, converg parallelogram contradictori forc yemen precipit humanitarian crisi monument proportions. syria yemen arguabl two biggest catastroph world requir construct form multilater engag yield people-centr solut full respect intern law. feel sure interest region power yearn peac stabil yemen syria.",0
508,"saint vincent grenadin reaffirm solidar palestinian peopl whose daili exist remain mar persist threat illeg annexation. honour palestinian peoples’ long held quest self-determin statehood revisit question full membership unit nation matter long overdue, essenti compon last two-stat solut quest sustain peac middl east. similar vein, construct pragmat intergovernment engag taiwan, respons advoc sustain develop exemplar magnific chines civilization, valid case taiwan’ meaning particip specialis agenc bodi unit nations.",0
509,"complex challeng 21st centuri solv militari mean quest hegemony. sell weapon tradit posit broker peace, cannot expect use outdat tool address effect contemporari exingencies. accordingly, saint vincent grenadin reiter import address earnestli question secur council reform — by, among things, expand perman membership includ brother sister african continent, incorpor nuanc perspect small island state continu rotat fixture, upgrad work method august, historically-shackled, bodi reflect realiti modern world. issu continu occupi attent saint vincent grenadin secur council countri forg strong partnership three non-perman member africa, becom known a3+1.",0
510,"conclude, reiter that, complex, consequenti overlap challeng face world today resolv inclus multilater solut comprehens develop strategies. admittedly, collect struggl peac prosper easi victories. yet, darkest moments, struggl seem insurmountable, must work togeth uniti solidarity, spite of, precis because, distinct perspect interest necessit “we peoples” work together. embark new decad collect journey, let us craft equit world nation peopl particip meaning measur apportion burden benefit.",0
511,"thank you.h.e. mr. volkan bozkir, presid gener assembly,",0
512,"h.e. mr. antonio guterres, secretary-general,",0
513,"head state, head government,",0
514,"author particip 75th session un gener assembly,",0
515,"outset, want apolog remov face mask, necessari time pandemic, want greet watch listen us around world.",0
516,"gener assembly, 2001, etern command hugo chavez",0
517,"said,",0
518,"“we come, then, without fear, good faith much optim life, brotherhood, uniti possibl we, leader countries, seek, grasp build togeth real solut real problem quest justic peace.”",0
519,"venezuela, believ world must complet revised, great magnifi glass said command chavez  power magnifi glass, world becom bad, stumbl one mistak another. call made command chavez 2001, take sens realiti re-found unit nation organization. arriv 2020, insist need renew paradigms.",0
521,"must work save planet. make call achiev highest polit commit fight climat chang realiti urgent priority. recogn import strengthen mitig adapt actions, accord unit nation framework convent climat chang pari agreement. therefor reaffirm import mean implement develop countri carri climat actions. noam chomski recent warned, “there much time left”.",0
527,said global attempt har drive 4th industri revolut — think ahead time.,0
540,cost inact uncertainty.,0
541,ask gener assembl kind futur want live in?,0
543,get back basics. go back foundat valu unit nation document enshrin — un charter univers declar human right — fulfil yet- unfulfil promises.,0
544,"futur must hold, quot preambl univers declar human rights, “ recognit inher digniti equal inalien right member human family,” truli “foundat freedom, justic peac world.”",0
545,valu embrac world over. univers declar human right today univers discourse. valu reflect almost state constitut sinc demis soviet union.,0
546,valu actualized.,0
547,"lofti ideal aspir intern community. achiev goals. afghanistan, urgent real problem grappl daily.",0
548,"take fulfil promis peace, prosperity, dignity, justice, freedom?",0
550,"need framework futur present pragmat solut collect address solv five driver turmoil, particularli global terror climat change.",0
551,"requir type imagin leadership gave us univers declar human rights, un charter capabl overcam global turmoil inflict world second world war.",0
552,"framework place, get back foundat basic unit nation creat address first place.",0
553,"unit nation need organ authorities, capabilities, capitals, commit fulfil purpos principl charter.",0
554,"would like commend excel secretary-gener guterr progress made far reform agenda un. much go, share respons shoulder effort progress sustain develop goal progress peace, prosper secur across globe.",0
555,"afghanistan, move next five year clear plan progress valu un, enshrin constitution, work toward prosperity, secur peac country.",0
556,"plan base build market econom development, move aid trade model, increas labor capit product key area competit advantage.",0
557,"object self-reliance, move away donor relationship mutual benefici partnerships.",0
559,"look close gap weak expos pandemic, strengthen system long-term.",0
560,"though face multipl driver turmoil afghanistan, all, peac remain urgent import priority.",0
561,"passag preambl charter unit nation encapsul current goal peac afghanistan. want “to save succeed gener scourg war, twice lifetim brought untold sorrow mankind, and... unit strength maintain intern peac security”.",0
562,"role unit nation stand share valu throughout peac process absolut critical, thank unit nation support far throughout arduou process. thank un call global ceasefire.",0
563,role un intern partner alli continu extrem import negoti team sit across taliban doha.,0
566,"excel volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl",0
567,excel head state govern,0
568,distinguish deleg,0
569,ladi gentlemen.,0
570,"memori sinc organization’ establish situat head state govern un member states, reason beyond schedule, could person attend gener assembl organization, discuss great topic intern relat seek outlin solut aim resolv main concern mankind ensur peace, secur stabil contin — common home.",0
572,"mr. secretari general, pleas allow congratul taken opportun decis maintain dynam function unit nation technolog resourc disposal.",0
579,"regard, oblig rapidli build throughout nation territori centr host peopl situat offici quarantine, equip country’ hospit basic equip covid-19-rel medic emerg on, build hospit centr capac treat possibl outbreak pandem relat facilities.",0
580,"acknowledg apart efforts, also benefit solidar countries, intern organization, companies, local intern nongovern organ well individu citizen help mitig somehow pandem impact angola, would like thank.",0
581,"human virtu alway use critic moment one go through, help immens alway enough solv grassroot problem face consequ complex situat one current experiencing.",0
582,therefor would like express appreci g-20 initi demonstr great sensit need collect action view reliev debt develop countri mean cushion burden liabil fall upon group countries.,0
583,think fundament view direct invest economi develop countri great equat econom growth development.,0
586,vision support idea multilater alway present approach taken regard press intern issu face world.,0
588,"thus, think within spirit focu endeavour search fair long last solut problem middl east, secur council pertin resolut matter, well afflict african continent, conflict instabl still prevail, case libya, sahel region other conflict minor scale region continent.",0
589,"worth recogn natur secur problem africa, mani cases, associ phenomenon intern terrorism, expans religi fundament post-elect conflict requir redoubl surveil attent unit nations, without forget support render countri face circumstances.",0
590,"light aforegoing, unit nation seek interpret imparti underli factor domest polit tension aris elect process assum posit ignor legitim establish government, strengthen capac interven resolv problem ensur normal function institutions.",0
593,thank attent wish 75th session unit nation may attain goals.,0
594,"thank muchmr. presid gener assembly,",0
595,"distinguish delegates,",0
596,"let begin warmli congratul excel ambassador volkan bozkir turkey, elect prestigi post gener assembl president.",0
597,"mr. president, albania honour serve, leadership, vice- presid 75th session gener assembly, repres eastern european group.",0
598,"fulli count commit support partnership, throughout histor session.",0
600,75th anniversari unit nation histor mileston serv time reflect strengthen un make effect address global unpreced challeng societi facing.,0
601,"covid-19 pandem plung world deep health econom crisis. socio-econom consequ certainli play mani year come, unpredict consequ global peac security.",0
603,"food security, poverti eradication, econom development, climat chang gender equal stake, exacerb exist vulner inequ within among countries.",0
605,global respons coronaviru pandem test multilater expos limit exist intern institutions. also demonstr alarm consequ falter global cooperation.,0
607,"unit nation centr inclus effect multilateralism, intern organizations, financi institutions, civil society, busi community, stakeholders, oper closer institut links.",0
609,"critic moment, must respond fear hope peopl serve.",0
611,"would like take opportun commend unit nation mobil support term person protect equip medic suppli 130 countries, well ongo effort acceler research develop vaccine, afford access peopl across globe.",0
613,"grate friendli nation help us time need, provid financi in-kind support ongo reconstruct efforts.",0
614,"also grate support receiv unit nations, prove true partner.",0
615,"agenc engag day one. rescu relief expert deploy immediately, support nation author alongsid partner europ elsewhere.",0
616,"covid-19 hit. world health organ accompani respons everi step way. jointly, un also prepar socio-econom respons plan ensur coordin action across un, effici support nation response.",0
617,"albania work hard achiev unit nation global goal reduc greenhous ga emiss 45 per cent next decade, net zero emiss 2050, accord pari agreement.",0
618,"addition, adopt strategi climat chang mitig action plan greenhous ga emissions.",0
620,"import object strategi protect roma egyptian communities, person disabilities, potenti vulner margin groups.",0
621,"progress also made term gender equality, number women work state institut public administr grow day.",0
623,"undoubtedli global threat, affect especi countri fragil economies.",0
625,"capac chair osce, albania strongli support call unit nation secretary-gener global ceasefire.",0
627,"albania firmli believ multilater key tackl global challenges. offer proactiv contribut intern peac secur region experience, key factor peace, stability, security.",0
628,"take active, constructive, matur approach act respons strengthen multilater partnership cooperation.",0
629,seiz opportun call esteem nation gener assembl support albania’ secur council bid 2022-2023.,0
630,"today’ complex interconnect world, modest countri like albania may expect compet economi materi assets.",0
631,"can, nonetheless, contribut enrich world precious: identity, history, culture, tradit values.",0
632,one tradit valu cherish it’ uniqu interreligi harmoni reign albania.,0
633,"although albanian tradit belong differ religi — peac live side side, sinc time immemorial. pope franci visit albania 2014, spoke “religi fraternity”.",0
635,"preciou heritag interreligi cultur toler defin nation. except stori albanian risk live protect rescu jew holocaust remark express spirit tolerance, compass respect toward fellow human beings.",0
636,albania proud offer world messag co exist dialogu religions.,0
638,european union access continu albania’ import strateg objective.,0
639,earlier year welcom eu council polit decis open access talk albania.,0
640,fulli awar need fulfil pend benchmark first intergovernment conference.,0
641,"process requir concert effort nation level, determin govern leadership head way toward genuin sustain reforms.",0
643,express sincer gratitud european institut member state assist recov earthquak struck us covid-19 pandem repercussions.,0
644,"albania continu fulli align eu foreign polici region, take pride firm european euro-atlant allianc share values.",0
645,albania awar oblig respons member intern community.,0
646,"ongo effort build peac security, albania contribut troops, umbrella un, eu nato, differ peacekeep oper south sudan, kosova, bosnia herzegovina, mali afghanistan.",0
647,"primari goal interest ensur last peac stabil region, western balkans.",0
650,"welcom agreement econom normal kosova serbia, broker guarante presid unit states, donald trump.",0
652,"countri seiz opportun conclud final legal bind agreement mutual recognit full normal relations, mediat european union.",0
653,albania strongli believ republ kosova export secur stabil balkans.,0
655,kosova today member mani intern organ region initiatives.,0
658,"thank kind attention!mr. president,",0
659,"excellencies,",0
662,countri suffer consequ pandem  viru know borders. want pass affect extend sympathi famili unfortun lost love ones.,0
664,"23 march, secretari gener call ceasefir put end hostil throughout world, ask us join forc pandem facilit work humanitarians. “the furi viru illustr folli war... silenc guns... let us take inspir coalit dialogu slowli take shape among rival parti enabl joint approach covid-19”, mr. antonio guterr urged. appeal good sens hope permanent, andorra align fulli call.",0
665,"similar way, unit nation spare effort plan offer respons help pave way recoveri countri pandem wreak havoc, countri massiv destruct broad sector economi long-lasting. respons must underpin sustain inclus type develop leav nobodi behind.",0
668,"specif terms, world cannot sustainable, sustain growth without activ particip women everi level. twenty-f year sinc beij platform adopted, mani element still need built base. longer toler vulner endur women, exacerb pandemic, rang violenc suffer discrimin basic right access health education. must use mean necessari prevent global disord caus covid-19 use roll back rights. need move forward agenda regress women. time  opportun give full mean beij declar platform action, ambiti plan promot women’ right establish thu far. and, accordingly, must take advantag moment rebuild approach crisi gender perspect wherebi women girl exercis freedoms, realiz right particip decision-making.",0
669,"hand, rebuild covid-19, children must protect government actions, especi within area education, understood fundamental, univers indivis right is. surely, better weapon help overcom discrimin prejudic make sure children access education. educ take form train inspir principl human rights, divers integration, respect align nature. need understand function educ respons societi whole, respons adult live interact children young people.",0
671,"again, would like reaffirm country’ commit intern commun seek build momentum necessari promot qualiti educ mechan guarante equal opportunities.",0
676,"initi support three pillars: welfar cohesion, econom innovation, allianc change, want achiev transparency, participation, proximity, effici equality.",0
681,"far ideal world, know must face challeng persist conflict still resolved, bloodi scenarios, imbalanc world poverti disappeared, famin increase, access health univers climat chang clearest sign structur defici  short, world univers declar human right sever read applications. must pull togeth revert situation, work open, integrated, particip inclus posit creat multilater organizations.",0
683,"andorra would like use assembl firmli reiter commit unit nations, agenc multilateralism, cooperation, inclus solut uniqu organ offer us. valu come togeth form solidar way help us overcom phase human still full uncertainties.",0
684,"ever, country, true record commit peace, stand besid unit nation seek reshap multilater order help us meet remain challeng deal possibl changes, see health crisi opportun put end model develop unsustain global run course.",0
685,"moment make sure solidar prevail aspects. seventy-f year on, need awar ever spirit led birth unit nations.",0
686,"thank much.mr. president,",0
687,"outset, would like thank excel mr. tijjani muhammad- band distinguish leadership previou session, look forward work offic presid gener assembl session.",0
690,"one start point continu focu solv exist polit crise prevent new conflict emerging, especi spread pandemic. countri continu work region intern partner restor secur stabil ensur affect countri take lead develop solut meet legitim aspir peoples.",0
692,"context, must stress import uphold purpos principl charter unit nation continu core uae’ foreign policy, particularli pursuit restor stabil region. repeatedli warn expansionist ambit state region, consist call upon intern commun end interfer intern affair state hold account financ it.",0
698,"maintain progress achiev da’esh syria iraq requir continu effort rebuild liber areas, strengthen rule law areas, protect commun extrem terrorism. support econom assist also provid sudan. also import prevent interfer sudan’ intern affair stop extremist group exploit situat threaten secur sudan neighbor states.",0
699,"call establish independ palestinian state border 1967 east jerusalem capit line relev intern resolut arab intern consensu remain firm demand. countri made persist effort use avail diplomat channel affirm total reject annex palestinian territory, warn impact parti secur region.",0
700,"sign histor peac accord israel, support american efforts, countri abl freez annex decis open broad prospect achiev comprehens peac region. hope peac accord provid opportun palestinian isra re-engag negoti achiev peace. posit toward support palestinian peopl achiev two-stat solut firm.",0
701,work ensur peac accord open new intellectu horizon region creat prosper path futur gener deserv stabl region better realiti war poverty.,0
704,"must continu focus coordin action provid humanitarian econom assist state affect conflict issu climat chang pandemic. countri forefront countri respond impact pandem provid assistance, support intern institutions, send aid commun around world. critic times, state must set differ asid focu strengthen cooper develop provid access vaccin treatment peoples. also encourag start plan recoveri phase revit global economy. must ensur suppli chain interrupted, key element achiev global food security.",0
705,"countri adopt effective, scientif program contain novel coronaviru pandemic. commit appli strict prevent measur stop spread virus, conduct largest possibl number tests, share result partners. advanc digit infrastructur uae facilit resumpt work remot studi maintain safeti people. addit provid local econom aid package, abl strengthen capac health system, support intern research pandemic, prepar potenti futur pandemics.",0
706,"futur prepared new country, follow approach sinc establishment. today, look forward fiftieth anniversari union confid optimism. effort culmin creation sustain economi signific achievements, includ launch probe mar year. uae continu encourag innovation, technology, bridg knowledg gap peoples. uae also continu advoc empower youth women provid equal opportunities. additionally, need continu build peac secur commun strengthen coexist dialogu among religion cultures.",0
707,"inspir preach example, come ratifi call whole world recreat multilater base solidarity.",0
709,"pope franci call us, especi leader gather occasion, think emerg better wors crisis.",0
710,"argentina one found state unit nation 75 year ago. today, experienc health crisi planetari dimens invit us new beginning.",0
711,look forward continu work partner achiev share vision creat peac prosper world — world capabl meet challenges.,0
712,"thank you.mr. secretary-general, mr. president, member honour assembly:",0
713,"recogn signific respons associ membership secur council extens challeng council faces, affirm uae work toward solv import issu confront state resolv determination. so, guid understand crises, experi arab region, close relationship member states. countri continu call involv region organ find perman solut crises, count support achiev goals.",0
714,time global indiffer global solidar multipl dimensions.,0
715,"sinc establishment, countri commit intern law, un charter, un resolutions. address seriou challeng region, countri embrac multilater tool reduc escalation, resolv crises, develop last comprehens polit solutions. context, pleas announc candidatur non-perman seat secur council period 2022-2023. countri follow step principl upon found maintain intern peac secur cooper member council.",0
716,"abl manufactur artifici respir combin compon knowledg differ region planet, abl dream build “non-artifici respirators” time post-pandemic.",0
717,"pool effort doctors, researchers, investor scientif system around planet discov vaccin prevent covid-19, abl dream build vaccin social injustice, environment predat discrimin forms.",0
720,"immedi relief provid famili busi multipl measures, state present active.",0
721,"spirit solidarity, argu vaccin produc prevent diseas must global public good, access nation equit manner.",0
722,support resolut adopt end gener assembl made capac avail vaccin research production.,0
723,"set goal govern put argentina back feet. together, put world back feet.",0
724,requir us recogn import balance.,0
725,"balanc restor prioriti multilater system, start bottom reach everyone.",0
726,must architect new common house.,0
727,"pandemic, rais issu need reform unit nation secur council. agreement revit world trade organization. rais issu crisi bretton wood institutions, demonstr shortcom respond 2008-2009 financi crisis. part multilater post-war architecture.",0
728,"pandem also put tradit metric crisi regard determin access develop resources. indic commonli use classifi need countries, per capita income, account divers inequ specif exist within country.",0
729,"work million domest worker unpaid caregivers, major women, made invisible.",0
731,aforement indic essenti revit unit nation enabl respond mandat created.,0
733,"point need deep reflection, goe beyond respons pandemic.",0
735,"commit environment agenda requir provis consider financi resources, capacity-build technolog transfer develop countries, base principl common differenti responsibilities.",0
736,"countri commit fair transit toward comprehens sustain development. fair transit entail gradual approach, strengthen product competit economi job creation.",0
738,"one safe planet fire, flood poisoned.",0
742,"negoti imf address similarli respons manner, respect commit jeopard condit enabl econom recoveri construct path inclus sustain development.",0
743,"5 year ago, 10 septemb 2015, gener assembl adopt resolut 69 319, entitl “basic principl sovereign debt restructur processes”.",0
744,posit gener assembl matter set preced govern intern financ recogn sovereign econom right face abus extortionist behaviour.,0
745,"aim ensur debt restructur process reason predictable, base good faith, transparency, fair treatment, sovereign immun jurisdict execution, legitimacy, sustain major restructuring.",0
747,"countri servic debt peopl left without health, education, safeti capac grow.",0
748,also balanc priorit human right everyth else.,0
750,"memory, truth justic guid institut democracy, well respect divers inclusion.",0
752,"never before, human condit demand solidar us. cannot remain passiv face sanction includ econom blockad serv oppress peopl amid humanitarian crisis.",0
753,fight form discrimin consequ commit right vulner person group suffer long-term discrimin part argentin state polici includ mani initi argentina support leads.,0
755,"society, achiev substant equal men women prioriti central pillar argentin democracy.",0
757,"govern decid strengthen nation action mechan care women victim violence, addit implement gender approach social labour protect measur promot co-respons fairer distribut unpaid domest work.",0
758,commit alreadi evident. argentina recogn unit nation rank countri implement highest number measur gender perspect pandemic.,0
759,i	wish reaffirm argentina condemn terror form manifest favour address within framework multilater forum alway accord rule law respect human rights.,0
761,also ask intern commun compli request contain interpol red notic event presenc accus person territori — someth argentina never ceas demand.,0
762,"conclusion, would like reaffirm legitim imprescript sovereignti right argentin republ malvina islands, south georgia island south sandwich island surround maritim areas, integr part argentina’ nation territori illeg occupi unit kingdom 187 years.",0
764,"request remain forc renew multipl occasions, recent adopt consensu new resolut matter special committe decolon 5 august.",0
767,ask secretary-gener renew effort mission good offic entrust organization. confid mission great assist us fulfil requir intern community.,0
768,wish bid farewel honour assembl urg us seiz histor opportun unit societi address unpreced crisis.,0
769,"coronaviru pandem taken live one million peopl pain aftermath mark increas poverty, hunger inequality, put us test again.",0
770,"hope solidarity, dialogu cooper nations, abl achieve, continu way respond challeng face humankind.",0
771,"thank much.mr. presid gener assembly,",0
772,"year celebr 75th anniversari foundat unit nations, born ash second world war. rememb sacrific grandparents, tribul peac futur humankind.",0
773,"today first time ever un gener assembl held virtual format. matter uncomfort undesir is, meet format prove determin humankind continu cooperation, show dedic commit un multilater cooperation.",0
775,"appreci primari role un, particular world health organ undp, global respons covid-19. grate partner countri support armenia part, extend share help friends. collect effort import manifest intern solidarity.",0
776,"spirit collect pledg leav one behind, share convict equit access essenti health technolog product combat viru global priority, one, includ live conflict areas, deni limit access remedi mitig impact covid-19.",0
777,"likewise, vaccin covid-19 global public good access afford peopl without discrimination.",0
778,"want stress armenia’ unequivoc support secretary- general’ appeal global ceasefir un secur council resolut 2532  2020  covid-19, demand gener immedi cessat hostil situations.",0
779,"global effort direct cope covid-19, wit deplor attempt destabil peac secur region. juli azerbaijan ventur yet anoth act aggression. arm forc azerbaijan initi militari offens borderlin tavush region armenia.",0
780,"armenia call immedi de-escal agre end hostil hour outbreak, azerbaijan continu target civilian popul infrastructure, attack armenia’ borderlin area employ artillery, heavi weaponry, uav’s, larg infantri units. moreover, azerbaijani author also escal war threats, cross imagin boundari civil world. azerbaijan’ ministri defens even threaten launch missil strike nuclear power plant armenia, tantamount threat “nuclear terrorism”.",0
781,juli battl shatter myth azerbaijan’ militari superior valid obviou militari solut nagorno-karabakh conflict. long overdu azerbaijani leadership acknowledg fact renounc use forc threat forc context conflict resolution.,0
782,"armenia reaffirm commit exclus peac settlement nagorno-karabakh conflict. right self-determin peopl nagorno-karabakh basi peac process, recogn intern commun intern mediators, osc minsk group co-chairs, particular. virtu right, peopl nagorno-karabakh abl determin statu without limitation. end, elect author abl take part negotiations. aspir need peopl live conflict zone becom prioriti negoti agenda.",0
783,ensur comprehens secur peopl artsakh expos existenti physic secur threat anoth key prioriti armenia.,0
784,"freedom, democraci respect basic human right integr requisit environ conduc achiev last comprehens settlement conflict. legitim elect govern genuin express interest peopl move toward compromise. author azerbaijan consist use conflict legitim long grip power. decades, armenia armenian use enemi leadership azerbaijan justifi low live standards, absenc democraci systemat violat human right country.",0
785,"ceasefir must strengthen concret action ground. renounc bellicos rhetor hate speech, expand osc monitor line contact borders, establish investig mechan ceasefir violat set direct commun line command ground essenti regard.",0
787,"despit challeng face year, armenia continu engag intern oper preserv intern peac security. armenian peacekeep serv lebanon, mali, kosovo, afghanistan contribut secur stabil there. readi expand particip peacekeep oper auspic un.",0
788,armenia priorit effect implement 2030 agenda sustain development.,0
789,"juli 10, 2020, armenia present second voluntari nation review  vnr  sustain develop goals. theme year’ high-level polit forum — acceler action transform pathway — perfectli reflect armenia’ nation prioriti polici past two year sinc non-viol velvet revolut 2018.",0
790,"power strong popular mandate, govern determin advanc ambiti reforms, aim build competit inclus democrat societi strong institutions. reform agenda embrac everi area public life put strong emphasi human rights, rule law, combat corruption, independ judiciari improv public administration. pursu large-scal econom social develop reli technological, environment educ high standards. week govern launch armenia transform strategi 2050 16 mega goals, base bold vision modern progress.",0
791,"75th anniversari unit nations, compel recogn mani exist challeng human digniti human rights. member human right council, armenia continu strongli contribut intern cooper protect promot human rights.",0
792,"domest polici foreign polici agenda, armenia underlin import prioriti promot equal right activ particip women youth polit public life.",0
793,protect women’ right conflict zone particip stage conflict resolut critical. practic implement provis un secur council resolut 1325  2000  amongst import prioriti government.,0
795,appreci strong intern support express also human right council armenia’ effort advanc effect intern prevent agenda.,0
796,"armenia promot platform inclus dialogu among governments, parliaments, intern organizations, academia civil societi genocid prevent agenda. “global forum crime genocide” held armenia, becom one regular platform dialogue.",0
797,"75th anniversari unit nation fit occas reaffirm strength three interconnect pillar peace, develop human rights. ongo conflicts, persist radic intolerance, transnat global challeng continu reveal collect vulner interdependence. ever, need effect multilater therefor strong reform unit nation better future, peac secur gener come.",0
798,thank you!mr presid,0
799,secretary-gener,0
800,happi 75th anniversari,0
801,"collectively, member state unit nation fail respons one planet duti peoples, one world.",0
802,"past 74 session gener assembly, mani pledg made, make intern commun less inequit  mani commit given lift-up poor vulner  mani declar issu end scourg war.",0
803,"yet, 74 year pass sinc first session gener assembly, 10 januari 1946, world experienc brief effort deliv pledges, commitments, declarations.",0
804,effort vital.,0
805,made difference.,0
806,"them, mankind made progress path human equality, environment safety, global security.",0
807,"but, despit them, benefit wider inclus intern cooper sacrif powerful, altar attain narrow exclus nation advantage.",0
808,"never before, world ampl technic financi resourc address challeng face mankind, includ ravag climat change, pandemics, food security, malnutrition, hunger poverty.",0
809,"problem is, resourc concentr capit nations, retreat contribut meet challeng overcom good humanity.",0
810,"assembl held, develop countri — particularli small state — trapped, downward spiral econom declin environment degrad create, control.",0
811,"trend identifi today, programmes, polici offer hope narrow gap rich poor, let alon bridg it.",0
812,"world witnessing, march richest nation away oblig global good.",0
813,"drum nation drown cri global solidar without which, world’ peace, progress prosper never assured, principl upon unit nation organ founded, ever satisfied.",0
814,futur want. futur deserve.,0
815,ever time nation world jointli confront threat — time now.,0
817,global sweep univers dangers.,0
818,visit public health emerg nation  wreak econom havoc them.,0
819,"peril pandem loom larg across globe, jump across divid nation border defi belief rich nation survive, poorer nation succumb.",0
820,"pandem ad danger climat chang is, pernici covid-19 pandem reach, insidi impact.",0
821,"poor vulner alreadi first suffer econom impact covid-19 climat change, rich spared.",0
823,everi nation world marketplac others.,0
824,chain suppli sale global.,0
825,"countri inextric interlink tourism busi air sea transportation, also, good servic buy supply, includ scienc technology.",0
827,"inter-dependent, howev larg small.",0
829,"yet, even though countri caribbean among greatest victim profligaci others, relat creation climat chang effect  and, although economi among worst impact covid-19 pandemic, whose creation play part  deni voic intern decision-mak subject unfairli others.",0
831,"erod gain made country, antigua barbuda where, januari year, set achiev 6.2 per cent growth, addit averag growth rate 5 per cent previou six years.",0
834,"case small country, deni loan intern financi institut  ifi  skew per capita incom criterion, appli policy-mak boards.",0
835,"result that, apart line credit inter-american",0
836,"develop bank, yet consummated, antigua barbuda receiv one cent intern financi institutions, help us meet enorm challeng brought much larger countri knees.",0
837,"case, approach pari club offici debt holder particularli callou  absolut insensit unpreced global pandemic.",0
838,"pari club found possibl agre suspens debt payments, debt rescheduling, debt forgiveness, allow countri like mine opportun cope extraordinari challeng confront us play part creating.",0
839,"amidst, circumst dwindl revenu extraordinari expenses, pari club demand repay decad old delinqu loan simpli cannot repaid time.",0
840,"worse, sympathi dire condit face, pari club block imf consid financi assist debt servic relief, provid mani others, unless subject programm would lead increas debt servic burden even auster condit peopl present exists.",0
841,"that, cannot certainli entertain.",0
843,"nonetheless, peopl countri move resilience, brave resolutely.",0
844,"reaffirm commit multilateralism, part tackl covid-19 within boundari contribut multilater action.",0
845,"proud that, despit challeng confronted, antigua barbuda success manag covid-19 pandemic, quickli detect treat infect person effect contact trace prevent commun spread.",0
846,antigua barbuda record three death sinc pandem started.,0
848,"govern also invest modern medic facilities, includ well-equip infecti diseas centre, man trained, qualifi experienc personnel.",0
849,"addition, expand upgrad health facil three bed per 1,000 popul improv tertiari health care services.",0
850,"achiev despit inadequ assist intern financi institutions, mitig impact pandem economy.",0
853,"unfortunately, econom develop far achiev revers littl prospect recovery.",0
854,"world want  proactiv financi intervent ifi’ need now, tomorrow  tomorrow’ intervent may late.",0
855,"alicia barcena, execut secretari un econom commiss latin america caribbean point out:",0
858,"distinguish delegates, futur want requir establish new era multilateralism, base premis life everi human matters.",0
859,"that, live lives, everi human given opportun prosper — free intimidation, hunger, malnutrition, diseas war.",0
860,nation — unit — affirm commit goal work dilig achiev it.,0
861,unit nation need.,0
862,"thank you.mr president,",0
863,histor unusu gather gener assembly.,0
864,"gather great citi new york, among people, across nation earth, togeth face storm.",0
865,global pandem claim live least 1 million soul know plung world global econom recession.,0
866,"event remind us share humanity, interdepend and, indeed, valu common hope.",0
867,"get education, job, livelihood.",0
868,"safe, healthi free.",0
869,live clean unpollut environment.,0
870,"time crisis, actual opportun share human overwhelm differ usual beset us focu pursu common hope. gather.",0
871,"speak today sydney, australia’ largest citi ancient home gadig people.",0
872,"one australia’ mani indigen peopl care contin 60,000 years. world’ oldest continu live indigen culture, acknowledg elder past, present futur make remark sydney today.",0
873,australia contend storm global covid-19 pandem recess great determination.,0
874,"aim simple, deni viru destruct seek visit upon us, upon live livelihoods.",0
875,"sadly, 800 australian lost live covid-19. compar term fare better grate that.",0
876,covid-19 case fatal rate fraction across globe.,0
877,"economi spare blow recession, first almost 30 year australia, impact far less almost everi develop economi world.",0
878,almost half job lost viru earli alreadi recovered. australia get job.,0
879,nation covidsaf action plan straight forward.,0
880,secur border earli consistently.,0
881,entrench covidsaf behaviour commun economy.,0
883,"build ensur strong testing, tracing, outbreak contain capabilities, shut viru down, take hold.",0
885,"provid econom lifelin million australians, famili businesses, lost job livelihood result recess incom invest support worth 15 per cent gdp.",0
887,"done consist principl open, liber democracy, respect digniti everi individual, everi citizen, everi life.",0
888,"australia, also mind wonder pacif famili pandemic, wantoks, vuvale, whanau, particularli island nation south west pacific.",0
889,australia singl largest develop partner nations.,0
890,"we’v provid person protect equipment, test equipment, medic expertise, we’r maintain essenti servic humanitarian corridor expert suppli get out.",0
891,"southeast asia, we’r also provid much-need equip expertise, well support collabor develop vaccine.",0
892,we’v contribut $80 million gavi covax advanc market commitment.,0
893,"come vaccine, australia’ view clear.",0
894,whoever find vaccin must share it.,0
895,"global responsibility, it’ moral responsibility, vaccin share far wide.",0
896,"might see short term advantage, even profit.",0
897,"assur anyon may think along lines, human long memori very, sever judge.",0
898,australia’ pledg clear: find vaccin share it.,0
899,that’ pledg must make.,0
900,"home, australian effort produc provid vaccin citizenry, sovereignli produced, vaccin safe avail we’v invest $1.7 billion task.",0
901,"includ commit ensur neighbour pacif part south east asia also access safe, effect afford vaccine.",0
902,"world health organ vital role, ensur vaccine, peopl around world get access it.",0
904,"face global health threat, remind import multilater cooperation.",0
905,"acknowledg effort contain spread virus, includ indo-pacif region.",0
906,i’m pleas establish independ panel evalu global response.,0
907,also clear mandat identifi zoonot sourc covid-19 viru transmit humans.,0
908,australia strongli advoc review.,0
909,viru inflict calam world peoples. must understand happen purpos prevent happen again.,0
910,"resolut put world health assembl may, record 145 countri co-sponsors.",0
911,"tri control spread covid-19, also need shine spotlight danger disinformation.",0
912,"disinform cost lives, creat climat fear division.",0
913,"goe australia’ valu belief free, open society.",0
914,"recent work unit nation co-author statement counter widespread disinformation, one sign 120 countries.",0
915,acknowledg un bodi also make vital contributions.,0
916,world food programm transport much-need medic equip humanitarian suppli across globe.,0
917,un develop programm send food nation dire need.,0
918,"fact, un fulfil high purpose, purpos 75 year ago brought world togeth unit hope, goodwill.",0
919,"mr president, 75 year remark milestone.",0
920,"course, much chang sinc 1945.",0
921,"un charter signed, 51 countri listed.",0
922,"australia proud one proud role play sinc within un, present day.",0
923,"today, 193 un member states.",0
924,that’ good thing.,0
925,voices. ideas. partners.,0
926,"voic challeng come complexity, negotiation, processes, bureaucraci would test organisation.",0
927,"75, know un, like human serves, nation form it, perfect.",0
928,"backdrop, think next 75 year look like un, structures, function multilater generally.",0
929,want multilater institut continu deliv us nations.,0
930,"we’r commit ensur fit purpose, they’r effective, they’r open transpar and, importantly, account sovereign state form them.",0
931,"un members, committees, processes, institut officials.",0
932,"author efficaci deriv free participation, contributions, cooper collabor sovereign state compris unit nations, common purpose, pursu common hope.",0
933,know sovereignti doesn’t mean turn inward though.,0
934,"valu rule protect sovereignty, peac security, curb excess use power.",0
935,australian also prize respect intern law peac resolut disput dialogue.,0
936,"includ ensur compet territori maritim claim base on, determin line with, intern law, includ unit nation convent law sea.",0
937,"outward-looking, sovereign, trade nation, australia also valu rule institut enabl intern trade.",0
938,"know trade creat wealth bring nation together. make us prosperous, us.",0
939,won’t retreat downward spiral protection australia.,0
940,we’r lead effort reform world trade organization.,0
941,"we’r advoc trade rule predictable, transpar non-discriminatory.",0
942,we’r help design first-ev set global digit trade rule keep pace modern realities.,0
943,we’r work hard preserv crucial element wto’ disput settlement system trade rule continu enforced.,0
944,"australia also reli heavili intern standard un technic bodi set, especi area like aviation, telecommunications, health.",0
945,"issu vital prosperity, want play bigger role alongsid busi civil societi set relev effici standards.",0
946,"need make sure standard serv countri rather singl power, develop line fundament principl global order.",0
947,"australia help shape norm emerg issues, also.",0
948,"like ensur state abid agre rule cyber space, maintain peac outer space, manag critic miner resources.",0
949,australia also commit ongo counter-prolifer efforts.,0
950,play major role negoti establish,0
951,"comprehens nuclear-test-ban treati organ 1980 1990s, see critic pillar intern peac secur today.",0
952,"signatori kyoto pari accord reduc carbon emissions, effectively. recent australia beat kyoto target commit 430 million tonn c02 abatement.",0
953,"2017 mid-2020, $30 billion invest renew australia.",0
954,"2019 saw invest three times, renew per capita rate countri like germany, china, france.",0
955,"across 2019 2020, australia add 12.6 gw renew capacity, that’ four time largest power station australia. nearli one four household rooftop solar systems.",0
956,"we’v alway believ values, it’ make us are.",0
958,australia one eight countri involv draft univers declar human rights. we’r proud role.,0
959,"today, we’r serv member unit nation human right council.",0
960,we’r first countri pacif region serv body.,0
961,"term end year, we’r pleas serv i’m proud we’v rais voic heard import issu like right women girls, right indigen peoples, global abolit death penalty.",0
962,australia continu bring influenc bear make sure respond interest member need time.,0
963,"mr president, 1945 defin year human history.",0
964,year second world war ended.,0
965,year unit nation founded.,0
966,year human found hope amidst despair.,0
967,year one hardest sinc then.,0
968,"let resolv also undiminish begin unit nation commit again, together, realis common hope bind us together.mr. president! excellencies! ladi gentlemen,",0
969,"75 year ago, world cautious rose horror destruct second world war. human experienc darkest abyss racial hate, cruelti violence. austria fulli awar respons regard.",0
970,devast suffer also hope. nation came togeth break endless circl violenc despair mark human histori centuries. vision world peac receiv institut form.,0
971,"sinc creation, unit nation work progress humanity. made planet safer set improv global standard human rights, rule law, accountability, conflict prevention, peacekeep disarmament.",0
973,ladi gentlemen!,0
974,"organization, un free faults. unit nation often side-lin solv conflicts. secur council often fail achiev consensu bring peac world’ worst crises. overal — compar today’ standard 75 year ago, exampl children’ education, women’ rights, child mortality, access clean drink water extrem poverti hunger, un realli proud achievements.",0
975,"however, continu face numer threats, would familiar meet 1945:",0
976,"¥	dozen arm conflicts,",0
977,"¥	nearli 80 million forcibl displac persons, well",0
978,"¥	terrorism, polit repress extrem poverty.",0
979,also new emerg threats:,0
980,"¥	cyber warfar risk fail technolog governance,",0
981,"¥	bioterrorism,",0
982,¥	new geopolit tension due increasingli polycentr,0
983,global system,0
984,¥	and climat chang potenti futur super-crisis.,0
985,"present, one threat, however, tower them: spread covid-19. affect everyone, everywher time. pandem chang way live way work.",0
986,"look gener debate. would prefer speak gener assembl hall instead austria. least honour address today un headquart vienna. would prefer meet person colleagu around world rather via video telephone. pandem depriv us one essenti tool intern relations: enrich person encount amongst colleagues. thus, undertak even effort keep line commun open!",0
987,covid-19 taught us hard way much take grant vulner believe.,0
988,"¥	instead enjoy liberti freeli move contin within europe, pandem forc us grappl travel restrictions. seen tip iceberg pandemic’ social econom impact. lot progress reach sustain develop goals, achiev past decad endang today.",0
989,¥	nearli 24 million children young peopl drop access school next year due pandemic.,0
990,"¥	covid-19 trigger sever recess almost century. see record neg number econom growth, unemploy inequality. intern relations, pandem fuel fire exist geopolit conflicts, cast shadow onto secur threats.",0
991,secretary-gener antonio guterr said “the warn light flashing”. indeed: geopolit trend present pandem gain momentum:,0
992,"¥	re-emerg nationalism, protection populism,",0
993,¥	decreas trust intern system,0
994,¥	increas dissemin misinform “altern facts”.,0
995,"pandem proven fals inform spread faster virus. travel speed thought. time evidenc base decisionmak crucial, wit eros trust experts, scienc technology.",0
996,"more: increas number peopl see pandem clear indic world whole develop wrong direction. instinctively, reject advanc technolog medic field, science, commun business.",0
997,"technolog progress jump ahead, left part popul behind. grow tension new technolog societi challeng polit nation well intern level. new technolog seem partial overburden societies. buzzword human downgrading, cyber crime, trade data protect person data privaci come mind.",0
998,"list would, however, incomplet without warn autonom weapon system — machin power decide, live dies. scienc fiction, fast becom realiti — realiti secretary- gener rightli call “polit unaccept moral repugnant”.",0
999,"act now, surviv civilian conflict zone determin algorithm constraint laid intern humanitarian law becom redund decis taken killer-robot without human control ethic concerns.",0
1000,"austria organ intern confer vienna next year address urgent issue. covid-19 permitting, invit participate!",0
1001,call new digit human need one reflection: today intern day total elimin nuclear weapons.,0
1003,"fight covid-19 overshadow everyth else, conflict crise around world simpli disappeared. war humanitarian crise afraid virus! contrary, mani even aggrav pandemic.",0
1004,must ensur crise obscur shadow covid-19.,0
1005,¥	yemen still ravag worst humanitarian crisi time.,0
1006,¥	libya still suffer protract conflict manifest disregard un arm embargo.,0
1007,"¥	the joint comprehens plan action iran hang thread, led spiral toughen positions.",0
1008,"furthermore, new crise unfold midst pandemic.",0
1009,¥	lebanon continu danger downward slide.,0
1010,¥	the eastern mediterranean seen sharp increas tension due illeg activ turkey could destabil whole region.,0
1011,"¥	and belarus, leadership final accept geni chang bottl cannot forc back.",0
1012,need stay alert let headline-grab viru distract us. one believ focu fight covid-19 constitut “cart blanche” breach intern law militari adventure.,0
1013,"however, also rare posit sign come region usual lack good news. austria much welcom announc normalis relat israel emir bahrain. hope relat flourish serv exampl countries.",0
1014,"austria join unit nation 65 year ago, novemb 1956, first speech deliv behalf country, foreign minist leopold figl said:",0
1015,"“today world look commun nations, hope",0
1016,placed. justifi confid peopl earth assur,0
1017,"preserv peac order, bread work?”",0
1018,"order justifi confid place us, enough meet year lament crisi multilateralism. enough pay lip-servic intern cooper need implement rules.",0
1019,"let’ honest: viru struck, even ardent multilateralist focus keep public safe, close borders, hoard mask equipment. even toughest my-stat first unilateralist look intern cooper secur medic suppli assist overcom social econom crisis.",0
1020,"so, don’t use pandem game-chang simpli away unnecessari disput multilateralist unilateralists? let’ chang game, set match!",0
1021,"test ground new approach could cooper covid-19 prevent effect treatment. newli develop vaccin must global public good, access reason price!",0
1023,encourag initi like access covid-19 tool acceler covid-19 vaccin global access facility. greatli valu indispens role world health organisation.,0
1024,"pandem expos vulner societi fragil humankind. know next global disast lurk around corner, wait hit us. climat change, nuclear disast cyber crime.",0
1025,success failur take decis unit nation take place vacuum. reach deep societi everyday live citizens. global crisi brought home us one clear lesson: succeed fail together.,0
1026,"we, “peopl unit nations” need — need strong function multilater system. today next 75 year come.",0
1027,"thank attention!mr. president,",0
1028,"congratul presid 75th session gener assembly, mr. volkan bozkir, election. delight elect repres brotherli turkey distinguish post. sure azerbaijan spare effort extend support respons honor endeavor.",0
1030,"almost 20 per cent territori azerbaijan remain occup armenia almost 30 years. armenia use militari forc azerbaijan, brutal violat un charter occupi nagorno-karabakh seven region azerbaijan. one million azerbaijani becam refuge intern displac persons.",0
1032,"armenia commit khojali genocid 1992 kill 613 peac resid khojaly, among 106 women 63 children. ten countri recogn khojali genocide.",0
1033,"four un secur council resolut demand immediate, complete, uncondit withdraw armenian arm forc azerbaijan’ occupi territories.",0
1034,"case, un secur council resolut implement within days. however, armenia continu ignor un secur council’ resolut almost 30 years. intern sanction must impos armenia aggressor state.",0
1035,"blatant violat intern law norms, armenia implement polici illeg settlement occupi territories. intern community, includ azerbaijan concentr elimin consequ beirut explosion, armenia misus situat settl lebanes peopl armenian origin occupi territori azerbaijan.",0
1036,"illeg settlement gross violat intern law, includ geneva convent 1949. war crime. illeg settlement occupi territori azerbaijan cannot legal effect.",0
1038,armenia illeg exploit natur resourc use water reserv creat artifici environment crisi occupi territories. armenia extract gold preciou metal miner occupi land azerbaijan export intern markets. scheme illeg busi activ money laundering.,0
1040,armenia deliber target civilian popul perpetr provoc along line contact armenia-azerbaijan border.,0
1042,arm forc azerbaijan took counter-measur liber part occupi territories.,0
1045,"purpos provoc armenia creat new sourc tension region, set asid issu armenia’ occup azerbaijan’ territories, involv third parti conflict, damag azerbaijan’ strateg infrastructur projects. also attempt distract people’ attent grow socioeconom problem armenia.",0
1046,"however, azerbaijan retali resolutely, armenia fail achiev objectives. armenia face anoth militari defeat. armenia appeal odkb  collect secur treati organ  militari assistance, thu admit defeat.",0
1047,"recently, armenian sabotag group attempt penetr line contact. head group detain azerbaijani militari servicemen 23 august year. confess group plan commit terror act azerbaijani militari servicemen civilians.",0
1048,"armenian govern turn azerbaijan’ propos exchang captiv base principl “all all”. azerbaijani civilian dilgam asgarov shahbaz guliyev, visit grave parent occupi territories, taken hostag tortured. remain captiv six years.",0
1049,"so-cal “elections” march occupi territori azerbaijan yet anoth provocation. so-cal “elections”, like previou ones, strongli condemn reject intern community, includ osc minsk group co-chairs, non-align movement, organ islam cooperation, european union, european parliament others.",0
1050,"illeg presenc arm forc armenia occupi land azerbaijan remain major threat region peac security. armenia tri derail peac process mediat osc minsk group co-chairs. aim pursu armenia maintain current status-quo occup annex occupi territories. contrari construct engag azerbaijan, prime minist armenia deliber undermin format substanc negoti process. statement “karabakh armenia” serious damag negoti process. unaccept groundless socal seven condit azerbaijan reject us. put forward one condit achiev peace. arm forc armenia must withdraw occupi territori azerbaijan. entir world recogn nagorno-karabakh integr part azerbaijan.",0
1051,"armenian prime minist announc establish civilian militia consist ten thousand civilian forc undertak militari action azerbaijan. minist defens armenia call “new war new territories”. armenia threaten azerbaijan strike major cities, critic civilian infrastructur mingachevir water reservoir sangach terminal, one world’ biggest oil-ga termin situat near baku provid energi secur ten countries.",0
1052,armenia recruit use mercenari terrorist differ countri azerbaijan. armenia state sponsor terrorism. armenia commit 30 terror act azerbaijan. credibl inform presenc armenian ala terror organ occupi territories.,0
1053,"armenian terrorist kill 24 turkish diplomats. varuzhan karapetian, member asala terror organ commit terror act kill mani peopl differ nationalities, airport orli pari later extradit armenia pardon presid armenia. terrorist treat hero armenia.",0
1054,"recently, armenia adopt aggress offens militari doctrin nation secur strategy. nation secur strategi contain racist, chauvinist “azerbaijanophobic” ideas.",0
1055,"glorif nazism state polici armenia. nazi gener garegin nzhdeh turn “nation hero”. second world war, detain sentenc 25 year prison die there. almost 6 meter high monument built memori nzhdeh center capit armenia. member number armenian terror organ like asala glorifi country.",0
1056,"hostile, azerbaijanohob statement provoc armenian leadership demonstr armenia prepar new aggress azerbaijan. call un intern commun urg armenia refrain anoth militari aggression.",0
1057,military-polit leadership armenia bear respons instig provoc escal tensions.,0
1058,"regretfully, osc minsk group co-chair’ activ yet deliv results. negoti must conduct sake negotiations, must target-ori meaningful.",0
1059,"presid osc minsk group co-chair countri — france, russia, unit state — statement stress status-quo unacceptable. welcom statements, statement enough. need actions.",0
1060,involv negoti process almost 30 year clear demonstr commit peace. 11 member minsk group activ involv process.,0
1061,"accord un secur council resolut 853  1993 , updat timet withdraw arm forc armenia occupi territori azerbaijan must prepared. appropri un institut must contribut implement un secur council resolut return azerbaijani intern displac person nativ lands. un secur council resolut timespecific. resolut valid implemented. misinterpret un secur council resolut unacceptable.",0
1062,armenia-azerbaijan conflict must resolv basi territori integr azerbaijan. azerbaijan’ territori integr never never subject negotiations. sovereignti territori integr azerbaijan must complet restored. nagorno-karabakh ancient histor azerbaijani lands. karabakh azerbaijan.,0
1063,"serious concern increas case arm suppli armenia, especi right militari provoc armenia tovuz district azerbaijan. activ militari clash state border stop 16 july. next day start 17 juli september, wit deliveri one thousand ton militari equip armenia militari cargo planes. take account armenia one poorest countri world afford pay weapon billion us dollars, assum get weapon free charge.",0
1064,"suppli weapon aggressor countri perpetr ethnic cleans significantli undermin peac negoti encourag occupi state instig new militari provocations. context, urg countri refrain suppli arm armenia.",0
1066,"human right massiv violat armenia. judg pressur blackmailed, journalists, opposit activist polit oppon jail despot regime. fact, dictatorship establish armenia.",0
1067,crimin case open two former presid country. member parliament despit immun detained.,0
1069,polit relat countri reach point crisis. countri rule warlord 20 years. incumb polit leadership continu practic previou regimes. prospect develop armenia unless consequ militari aggress azerbaijan eliminated.,0
1071,"despit enorm difficulti caus armenian occupation, azerbaijan manag build stable, modern, democrat multicultur country. develop democraci human right protect among top prioriti government. fundament freedom fulli provided, includ freedom expression, media freedom, freedom assembly, religi freedoms, well develop civil society. launch broad polit dialogu initi sever month ago. major polit parti support initiative. polit dialogu success start would help strengthen polit system serv caus sustain develop azerbaijan.",0
1072,"azerbaijan’ economi develop rapidly, gdp tripl last 17 years. poverti azerbaijan went 49 per cent 5 per cent within 17 years. 3700 school built complet renov azerbaijan last 17 years. literaci rate close 100 per cent country. countri signific progress implement sustain develop goals, azerbaijan one state submit voluntarili nation review un twice. azerbaijan rank 54th among 166 countri sustain develop goal index, accord “sustain develop report 2020”.",0
1073,"azerbaijan particip activ region connect projects, east-west, north-south, north-west transport corridors, becom one eurasia’ primari reliabl transport logist hubs. also commiss baku-tbilisi-kar railroad baku intern trade seaport potenti handl capac 25 million tons. accord davo econom forum’ global competit report 2019, among 141 countries, azerbaijan rank 11th “effici railroad services”, 12th “effici air transport services”, 25th “effici seaport services” 27th “qualiti road infrastructure”.",0
1074,azerbaijan member intern space club. today 3 satellit — 2 telecommun one earth observ satellite. 80 per cent popul use internet.,0
1076,"multicultur way life peopl azerbaijan. present world exampl toler coexistence. “baku process” launch azerbaijan 2008 strengthen dialogu cooper muslim world europe, support unit nations. un gener assembly’ resolut recogn world forum intercultur dialogu held azerbaijan everi two year “key global platform promot intercultur dialogue”.",0
1077,"7th global forum un allianc civil held azerbaijan 2016. furthermore, azerbaijan host first ever european game 4th islam solidar game 2015 2017 respectively. sport event great contribut promot multicultur well.",0
1078,"pope franci paid visit azerbaijan 2016. february, visit vatican meet pope francis. meeting, pope franci refer azerbaijan “true exampl tolerance”.",0
1079,"azerbaijan attach great signific restor religi monuments, mosques, churches, synagogues. implement joint project restor religi histor monument differ countries.",0
1084,world health organ name azerbaijan exampl fight pandemic.,0
1085,made voluntari contribut world health organ amount $10 million 2 equal tranches. second tranch alloc non-align movement’ member states. azerbaijan provid humanitarian financi assist 30 countri respect coronavirus.,0
1086,unanim decis 120 countri non-align movement azerbaijan elect chair body. octob 2019 azerbaijan assum chairmanship non-align movement 18th summit head state govern held baku. statement summit stress azerbaijan utmost advoc interest non-align movement’ countries. azerbaijan defend justic norm intern law.,0
1087,"non-align movement’ extraordinari summit respons coronaviru via videoconference, held initi may 2020. summit, suggest hold special session un gener assembl respons coronaviru level head state government. initi support 130 un member states.",0
1088,think special session serv framework address pandemic’ impact sphere contribut effort elimin consequences.,0
1089,"intern peac secur problems, pandemic’ impact countri world call solidar countries. want put forward sever propos end:",0
1090,"reform within intern organ particularli time essenti post-pandem period. regard, particular attent paid increas un’ role prestig global level abil undertak adequ respons measur concern challeng modern times.",0
1091,non-fulfil secur council resolut undermin prestig unit nations. implement mechan must creat un secur council resolutions.,0
1092,refuge idp becom vulner group pandem period. return vulner group nativ land safeti digniti gain great urgency.,0
1093,"ensur afford fair distribut vaccin necessary, least develop countri get free charge. regard, addit oversight mechan developed.",0
1094,"scope pandemic’ neg impact implement sustain develop goal countri must care analyzed, solut must formulated.",0
1095,"thank attention.your excel mr. volkan bozkir, presid unit nation gener assembl seventy-fifth session,",0
1096,"excellencies, head state government,",0
1097,"majesties,",0
1098,"mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations,",0
1099,"dear colleagues, distinguish delegates, ladi gentlemen, protocol observed,",0
1101,"course, would like debate, coincid seventy-fifth anniversari creation organization, take place gener assembl hall customary, ala — covid-19 pandemic, hit nation world head-on, requir us meet virtually.",0
1102,"express hope next session held better circumstances, overcom health crisi spare one.",0
1103,"allow me, then, express warm congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir republ turkey brilliant elect presid unit nation gener assembl seventy-fifth session.",0
1104,"great qualiti talent certainli guarante success work session. indeed, central theme year’ gener assembl well thought-out, name “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0
1105,"naturally, count burundi’ full cooper accomplish nobl exhilar mission.",0
1106,"time, would like pay well-deserv tribut predecessor, mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, admir profession person qualities, also except profession manner presid seventy-fourth session, success conclud particularli difficult context mark covid-19 crisis.",0
1107,"take opportun present, behalf burundian people, deepest condol solidar nation lost citizen result covid-19 pandemic. indiscrimin pandem highlight import multilateralism, intern solidar cooper manag global crise paradoxes.",0
1108,"furthermore, allow commend remark work secretary- general, mr. antonio guterres, ongo courag action reform common organ order increas effici credibl bring closer citizen world, without discrimination. burundi reiter full support cooper regard.",0
1109,"mr. president, term domest policy, burundi well advanc process consolid peac democracy, despit challeng face country.",0
1110,"indeed, burundi held gener elect may august. elect fair, free, democratic, transparent, peac financ entir burundian taxpayers’ resources.",0
1111,"full financ elector process nation resourc testimoni burundian peopl definit take ownership political, administr econom govern system countri without extern interference.",0
1112,"foundat strengthen democraci place, remain get work develop — linchpin fight poverty.",0
1113,"awar struggl requir wisdom, bravery, courage, persever high sens patriot love work. together, unity, succeed.",0
1114,"regard secur situation, pleas inform situat burundi stable, calm fulli control throughout country.",0
1115,"regard humanitarian situation, welcom massiv voluntari return burundian refuge fled countri follow event plung burundi deep mourning.",0
1116,"addit sever thousand burundian return without unhcr assistance, 1 august 2017 31 august 2020, 92,285 refuge voluntarili repatri burundi tanzania, also kenya, rwanda, democrat republ congo uganda.",0
1117,"massiv voluntari return movement clear manifest return peace, tranquillity, confid stabil country.",0
1118,"diplomat level, ambit build friendli relat strengthen cooper base principl mutual respect sovereign equal states. tendenc state use subtl illeg mean manipul geopolit countri south power supplant intern commun oppress countri impos unilater coerciv measur violat principl charter unit nation must stop. burundi advoc multilater wherebi everi country, regardless size level development, role play address humankind’ mani share challenges.",0
1119,"regard, burundi remain open cooper countri intern organ seek develop mutual benefici respect cooper relations.",0
1123,act destabil factor countri instead promot peac tranquillity.,0
1124,therefor reiter legitim call immedi remov burundi secur council’ agenda use preciou time address socioeconom develop support nation effort implement nation develop plan period 2018 2027 sustain develop goal  sdg  2030 agenda sustain development.,0
1125,"concern implement 2030 agenda, addit integr align sdg 2018-2027 nation develop plan, govern republ burundi highlight sever prioriti requir immedi special attention. fight poverty, promot good governance, public health, agricultur anim husbandry, environment protection, human capit development, counter youth unemploy free health care retirees. area good governance, govern implement zero-toler polici corruption, social injustic misappropri wast use state assets, polici best practic manag state employees.",0
1126,"like countri commit sustain development, burundi taken everi measur need produc regular follow-up report implement sdg nation develop plan.",0
1128,"mr. president, regard global challenges, session excel opportun member state reflect organ must face new emerg challenges. ever, world live today requir consensu approach address major challenges, climat change, terrorism, peac settlement conflicts, reform security-council, migrat manag health crises.",0
1131,"concern fight terrorism, strongli condemn terror forms, country, burundi, believ terror cannot associ religion, nationality, civil ethnicity. borderless threat requir global solut uncondit tackl root caus evil time.",0
1132,"awar magnitud terror today, country, burundi, continu make substanti contribut combat terror somalia, countri deploy 5,000 troop unit nation peacekeep operations, well central african republic, burundi militari battalion, excel work.",0
1133,"regard process region integration, welcom commend initi establish african continent free trade area  afcfta , allow free movement good peopl continent. doubt african continent free trade area repres genuin opportun stimul growth, reduc poverti broaden econom inclus africa.",0
1134,"concern subject reform secur council, negoti quarter century, country, burundi, remain firmli commit common african position, contain ezulwini consensu sirt declaration. common african posit aim correct flagrant injustic commit africa, contin repres secur council categori perman membership, also underrepres non-perman category.",0
1137,"challeng met intern solidarity, cooper promot multilateralism, base rule intern law.",0
1138,"mr. president, conclusion, country, burundi, never stop believ intern solidarity, multilater reject power diplomacy. bless belief, countri burundi reaffirm commit fulli particip build world order base rule law, peaceful, equitable, prosper respect principl charter unit nations.",0
1139,"thank everyon kind attention. may god bless everyone!presid gener assembl secretary-general,",0
1140,"head deleg ladi gentlemen,",0
1141,trust - respons - commit,0
1142,three pillar influenc mutual aid cooper among variou countries: effect multilateralism.,0
1143,three valu need safeguard multilater would like speak today.,0
1144,pandem must serv eye open,0
1145,"indeed, 2020 recal pain year. covid-19 pandem took us surprise. state face unpreced crisis.",0
1146,viru claim live hundr thousand people. shatter mani famili around world. econom impact also considerable.,0
1148,"yet, blind covid-19. contrary, open eye shortcom expos model society, example.",0
1149,"must acknowledg neg disproportion effect pandem suffer disproportion inequalities: women girls, children, older person peopl disabilities. one left wayside.",0
1150,mention challeng,0
1151,"continu combat pandem consequ vigour determination, cannot turn back major challeng twenty-first century.",0
1153,threaten fragil balanc world.,0
1154,conflict never inevitable.,0
1155,"furthermore, alway devast impact populations...",0
1156,"situat gulf, example, remain sourc seriou concern call utmost prudence.",0
1157,jcpoa  joint comprehens plan action  remain crucial ensur iran’ nuclear programm use exclus peac purposes. must activ preserv agreement non-prolifer regime.,0
1158,"issu upcom lift convent weapon embargo must jeopard nuclear agreement achievements. top prioriti region stability, intern secur global non-prolifer architecture.",0
1159,"middl east, prospect last peac remain goal. peac middl east without perman solut palestinian question.",0
1160,peac middl east without israel’ legitim right live peac secur within intern recogn borders.,0
1161,peac middl east without erad terrorism.,0
1162,"yes, suspens plan formal annex part occupi palestinian territori step right direction.",0
1164,welcom recent announc normal israel’ relat unit arab emir bahrain. must view sign hope cornerston peac stabil entir region.,0
1165,"said, intern multilater effort aim meaning resumpt talk must activ support enabl negoti viabl two-stat solut base intern law unit nation resolutions.",0
1166,"secur situat much sahel remain matter seriou concern, despit numer effort increas intern mobilization.",0
1167,"follow coup de forc led mutin member malian arm forces, mali’ legal constitut order challenged.",0
1168,"legitim demands, aspir frustrat malian citizens, await solut mani challeng face country, met way. support region inter-malian effort establish soon possibl civil transit process bamako allow return constitut order.",0
1169,mani mali’ challeng common entir region.,0
1170,"terrorism, conflict pastoralist farmer inter-commun tension pose sever secur threats.",0
1171,"holist approach need combat violent extremism, underscor good governance, fight impunity, strengthen democrat institutions, respons grievanc margin group sustain inclus development.",0
1172,"time, ever-increas number region world experi health, secur humanitarian implic climat chang degrad biodiversity.",0
1173,"drought errat weather condit drive peopl homes, whether somalia, yemen afghanistan. melt polar ice lead militar arctic.",0
1174,"impact climat chang underscor social, political, econom environment caus conflict.",0
1175,climat emerg challeng peace. time waste.,0
1176,caus must concern us all.,0
1177,"sustain develop goal and, generally, 2030 agenda essenti tool respond global challeng face — poverty, inequ climat environment degradation.",0
1178,effect multilater respons,0
1179,"light global challenges, must act.",0
1180,admit cannot alone.,0
1181,none common challeng mention address isolation. none complex problem simpl solutions.,0
1182,"choic join forces, even mean reimagin obviou even chang paradigms. alway accord principl charter.",0
1183,multilater work basi essenc  work common make work.,0
1184,"make task take action difficult task reflect easier, it. let us engag wrong fight.",0
1185,relev question multilater reveal indispens nature.,0
1186,"today, ever, need effect multilateralism.",0
1187,never object itself.,0
1188,"alway mean address problem part, one way another.",0
1189,mean prevent crise head-on.,0
1190,"trust, respons commitment.",0
1191,trust,0
1192,"say trust, mean trust — trust individu collect capacities, demonstr health-car services, fight pandemic.",0
1193,"trust courage, resilience, knowledg respons behaviour, combin scientif progress, mitig climat change.",0
1194,trust commit achiev sustain develop all.,0
1195,intern commun alreadi overcom major challeng again. resign option.,0
1196,"speak trust, also mean mutual trust. trust forc us keep word. make us maintain constant dialogu put other’ shoes.",0
1197,"not, longer so, mistrust set and, sooner later, make necessari cooper difficult even impossible.",0
1198,"say trust, mean good govern national, region intern level order gain trust citizens.",0
1199,"good govern built foundat rule law, democracy, account full respect human rights.",0
1200,"say trust, mean trust justic — justic must built unshak convict individu equal form discrimin alter fact.",0
1201,respons,0
1202,"trust, responsibility, commitment.",0
1203,"unit nations, respons make global govern work. contribut variou way variou levels, everi member benefit. unit nations.",0
1204,"such, share respons make multilater work show ad value.",0
1205,fulli support secretary-gener antonio guterres’ continu effort reform un.,0
1206,"reform greater efficiency, greater transpar greater respons adaptability.",0
1207,"also reaffirm full support peacekeep action. recognit need safeguard one import instrument intern commun support polit processes, protect hundr thousand civilian help enforc ceasefires.",0
1208,make global govern multilater work also mean hinder function exist bodies.,0
1209,"therefore, belgium reaffirm firm support icc, essenti bodi fight impun seriou crime affect entir intern community. independ imparti institution, court play indispens role area. account also mean take ownership challeng move identifi take action address them. respons contemporaries, also, all, children next generations. bring next point — commitment.",0
1210,commit   belgium,0
1211,commit multilater part country’ dna.,0
1212,perhap foreign histori  tradit compromise.,0
1213,intern rule protect us.,0
1214,cooper close relat strengthen us.,0
1215,"effect multilater allow us punch weight. process, we, larg small, voic ad valu around table.",0
1216,commit help belgium obtain sixth mandat un secur council.,0
1217,"elect council member 2019 2020, continu discharg duti advanc peac secur daily.",0
1218,"so, recogn secur council immun geopolit tensions. see imperfect body. see 15 state alway abl resolv conflicts.",0
1219,"however, also see major decis unanimous.",0
1220,increas cooper among elect member inspiring.,0
1221,"step taken discuss new secur threats, climat change, encouraging.",0
1222,"transit justic anoth area unit nation demonstr ambit — comprehens human rights-bas approach, central justic accountability.",0
1223,"aspirations, requir coordin among variou nation intern actors. belgium contribut achiev continu engage.",0
1224,commit also drive forc behind country’ contribut develop cooper humanitarian aid.,0
1225,prompt belgium provid multi-year support unrwa — make countri one largest donor — improv live palestinian refugees.,0
1226,belgium’ commit also reflect posit one main european donor yemen.,0
1227,also support unicef’ effort enabl monitor children’ right conflicts.,0
1228,belgium’ commit reflect predict direct multi-year fund unit nation organ activ area development. allow long-term action adequ respons mani crises.,0
1229,"constant commit work strateg object un- women, whose tenth anniversari mark year, countri work toward systemat integr gender dimens efforts. cardin principl foreign policy. believ endors work dr. deni mukweg support women victim sexual violenc eastern congo.",0
1230,"furthermore, arm forc also committed. commit fight threat terror global coalit da’esh.",0
1231,"commit particip multilater peac mission mali afghanistan, auspic un, european union nato.",0
1232,"lastly, strong solid organ must abl reli resourc sovereign member state decid alloc it.",0
1233,belgium commit continu effort ensur un necessari resourc conduct work time — indispens compon effect multilateralism.,0
1234,conclus,0
1235,"celebr seventy-fifth anniversari un, special circumstances, must allow pessimistic.",0
1236,let us stand up. let us face challeng ahead build past achievements.,0
1237,"come weeks, celebr 20 year progress women peac secur agenda twenty-fifth anniversari beij platform.",0
1238,multilater achiev global polici framework women’ rights. two concret exampl togeth improv live half world’ population. matters. project still much progress made.,0
1239,"examples, matter.",0
1240,remind us multilater work. remind us mani benefit effect multilateralism.,0
1241,let us therefor support it.,0
1242,without hesitation.,0
1243,"trust, respons commitment.",0
1244,"thank you.presid gener assembly,",0
1245,"head state govern head delegation,",0
1246,"excel mr. patric talon, presid republ benin, head state head government, could today, instruct deliv follow address behalf.",0
1247,"“first all, would like reiter you, mr. volkan bozkir, warm sincer congratul elect presid august assembl assur benin’ full support cooper conduct duties.",0
1248,"take opportun express benin’ gratitud mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, reiter support government.",0
1249,"time entir world face covid-19 pandemic, take opportun offer sincer condol nation record death express solidar republ benin affect scourge.",0
1250,"state mobil deal effect health crisis, countri welcom fact unit nation special agencies, particular world health organization, consid priority.",0
1251,"benin welcom theme year’ session, entitled, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0
1252,"theme forc us shoulder respons reiter faith commit multilater ideal charter unit nations. remind us urgenc collect action find appropri last solut challeng time, press is, know, erad covid-19.",0
1253,"support peopl intern community, benin continu effort grappl pandem consequ and, particular, revit economi which, like economi major countries, deepli affect scourge.",0
1254,"end, among things, govern roll vast programm amount nearli 200 billion cfa franc support formal inform busi alike, well artisan vulner people.",0
1256,covid-19 pandem one seriou public health crise modern history. threat lead us ignor fight hiv aid diseas pose threat communities.,0
1257,"effect combat scourg requires, manag today’ global challenges, coordin intern respons enhanc cooper global scale.",0
1258,"benin, voice, reiter commit promot strengthen multilateralism, framework cooper among state seek resolv contemporari issu kinds, includ fight extrem poverty, priority.",0
1259,"let remind septemb 2016, gener debat seventy-first session unit nation gener assembly, stress mass poverti major threat humankind must take proactiv collect action erad it. four year later, call remain relevant.",0
1260,"reiter need urgent implement global programm overcom form poverti collect voluntari action. multilateralism, enabl unit nation provid world pari climat agreement, right tool achiev objective.",0
1261,"regard, welcom courag reform undertaken unit nation secretary-gener reposit unitedn develop system. benin support resolut 72 279, aim strengthen institut architectur unit nation develop system ensur greater effectiveness.",0
1262,"benin also firmli support intergovernment negoti reform unit nation secur council. believ reform make possibl redress histor injustic done africa — contin repres council perman member. benin also reaffirms, voice, urgenc alloc two perman member seat africa, accord ezulwini consensus.",0
1263,"head govern head delegations,",0
1264,peac harmoni among state key compon benin’ foreign policy.,0
1265,"countri therefor reaffirm support diplomat initi aim creat viabl fulli sovereign palestinian state, live side side peac state israel.",0
1266,"benin believ current context covid-19 justifi concret step total definit lift embargo cuba. however, spite pandemic, regrettably, see embargo tightened.",0
1267,"countri make urgent appeal normal relat cuba unit state america, interest peopl countri entir world.",0
1268,"sinc april 2016, benin engag far-reach polit econom reform design clean economy, creat favour environ invest combat corrupt prevarication.",0
1269,"benin therefor decid break mistak past seek engag rigor resolut govern sectors. govern systemat implement major reform action programme, whose goal line sdgs.",0
1270,"result achieved, laud nation internationally, convinc peopl benin that, determin resolve, possibl countri get rut return path develop prosperity.",0
1271,"“mi govern relentlessli pursu path toward radic transform live condit benin’ citi rural areas, includ univers access drink water electr power, which, recent 2016, consid privileg luxuri benin.",0
1272,“mi government’ programm action also attach prime import preserv environ energi transition. measur plan within framework complementari object prioriti contain pari agreement climat change.,0
1273,"“the appeal launch 15 novemb 2016 marrakech confer state parti unit nation framework convent climat change, aim creat intern research centr address effect climat chang agriculture, receiv favour respons states.",0
1274,"“i take opportun commend state region groups, along unit nation framework convent climat chang secretariat, spare effort reach consensu necessari effect establish centre.",0
1275,"“mr. president,",0
1276,"“ladi gentlemen head govern head delegations,",0
1277,"“ladi gentlemen,",0
1278,"“benin belong subregion increasingli affect deterior secur situation. unfortunately, number victim terrorist violenc continu grow, particularli sahel. situat requir joint effort collect action address it.",0
1279,"“in connection, welcom action plan 2020-2024 adopt decemb 2019 ecowa view effect comprehens combat scourg west african subregion.",0
1280,"“furthermore, would like express benin’ solidar g-5 sahel member countri call intern commun bolster region effort provid strengthen support fight terror africa.",0
1281,"“there doubt that, together, succeed stabil region africa view creat condit conduc develop fulfil aspir respect populations.",0
1282,"“thank kind attention.”mr. president,",0
1283,"head delegation,",0
1284,brilliant elect presid 75th session gener assembl give pleasant opportun extend sincer congratul delegation.,0
1285,"mr. outgo president, dear professor tijjani muhammad band",0
1286,"assum presid 74th session unit nation gener assembl behalf africa, idea organization, beyond that, entir world, would experi health crisi profound covid-19.",0
1287,"face unforese situation, team manag adapt new requir meet challeng order ensur continu activ function gener assembly.",0
1288,"secretary-general,",0
1289,"januari 22, present 2020 prioriti gener assembly, identifi call four “horsemen apocalypse” global geostrateg tensions, “existential” climat crisis, grow mistrust among peopl everywher “dark side” digit world.",0
1290,"unfortunately, less two month later, fifth highli destruct horseman apocalypse, coronaviru disease, appear ad four alreadi identified. sinc then, fulli invest ensur unit nation mobil confront pandem multifacet consequences.",0
1291,"14 june 2019, unit nation gener assembl decided, resolut 73 299, celebr 75th anniversari common organ theme “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism”. given global crisi trigger covid-19 pandemic, presid gener assembl supplement celebration’ gener theme word “to confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0
1292,"theme, underpin activities, meet confer organ un 2020, remind us fundament reason behind organization’ creation.",0
1293,"commemor anniversary, us would like physic present headquart new york, come togeth celebr valu promot defend unit nation sinc creation 1945.",0
1294,"unfortunately, pandem dictat otherwise, remind us world’ fragil interdependence.",0
1295,"9 march 2020, burkina faso record first case covid-19. govern adapt action realiti time, implement quarantin lockdown measur cities, well variou restrictions.",0
1296,"mr. president, distinguish delegates,",0
1297,"covid-19 pandem multidimension crisi risk destroy develop effort number countries, especi affect conflict.",0
1299,"take opportun welcom debt relief measur favour develop countries, call debt cancel outright.",0
1300,ladi gentlemen head deleg,0
1301,"month ago, issu organ crime essenti view prism fight terrorism. today, emerg coronaviru diseas pandemic, must take account triptych organ crime, terror covid-19.",0
1302,"war terror sahel region, would like commend intern community’ support backing, proof anyon still need fight terror matter intern security.",0
1303,"militari aspect alone, point notabl progress activ g5 sahel joint forc friendli troops. also cannot ignor highli signific involv secretary-general, secur council european union reviewing, februari 2020, technic agreement european union, unit nation g5 sahel, allow minusma support g5 sahel joint forc extend beyond mali’ borders.",0
1304,"however, regrett said forc still yet reach desir oper level. would therefor like reiter call secur council forc place chapter vii unit nation charter benefit sustain funding.",0
1305,"also call partner activ support intern coalit sahel creat pau, france, januari 2020.",0
1306,distinguish deleg,0
1307,"fight terrorism, organ accus defenc secur forc atroc human right violations. would like reaffirm defenc secur forc carri mission respect human rights, particular right life right physic integrity, guarante legal instrument burkina faso party.",0
1308,"whenev member defenc secur forc implic allegations, investig duli open order identifi account punish perpetrators.",0
1309,"would like reassur burkina faso’ partner intern commun that, despit modest resources, defenc secur forc combat terror professionalism, strict complianc rule engag govern actions.",0
1310,"case, burkina faso spare effort meet challeng fight terrorism, guarante protect popul refugees, continu work restor peac secur across entir nation territory, accord rule intern law.",0
1311,"regard, 1 july, govern agre open offic unit nation high commission human right burkina faso.",0
1312,"voter go poll burkina faso 22 novemb 2020 joint presidenti legisl elections. entir polit class, major opposit alike, consensu agre proceed elections, despit prevail insecur certain region country.",0
1313,"reaffirm government’ commit organ transparent, inclus peac elections. end, juli 2019, institut perman polit dialogu framework compon burkinab polit class, order remov obstacl aris throughout process.",0
1314,"burkina faso, earli take stock need preserv environment. policies, measur undertaken revers trend environment degrad ensur sustain manag natur resources.",0
1315,"tragic flood countri sever countri contin recent week remind us need stronger commit multilater approach, embodi unit nation framework convent climat change.",0
1316,"troop-contribut countri support unit nation search peace, burkina faso has, despit intern situation, deploy 1,130 troops, includ one battalion two form polic unit 60 individu posts.",0
1317,wish take opportun reaffirm burkina faso’ constant readi engag alongsid unit nation seek achiev peac throughout world deploy uniform personnel legal experts.,0
1319,"even today, african issu abund secur council’ agenda.",0
1320,"ongo secur crisi sahel lake chad basin genuin concern answer must found, knowledg situat libya one causes.",0
1321,mean resolv polit crisi libya one guarante need peac return regions. therefor ask secur council appoint new joint un african union special envoy lead negotiations.,0
1322,"mali, call settlement polit crisi rapid return constitut order, support decis ecowa smooth transition.",0
1323,"western sahara issue, notabl progress made follow conven two round tabl geneva algeria, morocco, mauritania polisario front deserv consolidated. achiev this, burkina faso wish see appoint new special envoy order pursu work predecessor.",0
1324,"situat middl east, particularli israeli-palestinian conflict, real need relaunch diplomat effort aim put end conflict.",0
1325,"regard economic, trade financi blockad impos cuba sinc 1962, burkina faso reiter call lifted.",0
1326,"burkina faso congratul cuba abl contain pandem and, show intern solidarity, sent hundr doctor health-car worker 35 countri around world respons request urgent help.",0
1327,"seventy-f year creation, 20 year intergovernment negotiations, reform unit nation still pending. however, everyon agreement acknowledg organ must make possibl redress injustic done africa, african claim legitim aspiration.",0
1328,"therefor reiter country’ support african common position, reflect ezulwini consensu sirt declaration, accord africa must fulli repres decision-mak bodi unit nations, especi secur council.",0
1329,ladi gentlemen,0
1330,"adopt 21 septemb final declar commemor seventy-fifth anniversari organization, acknowledg organ yet achiev level found father wish for, poverty, hunger, terrorism, extrem even insecurity, inter alia, remain pertin issu day.",0
1331,"consequently, commit histori leav one behind, promot peac digit cooperation, take young people, women girl account develop policies.",0
1332,"recogn interdepend variou challeng face unit nations, resolv strengthen multilateralism. hope secretary-general’ report, submit us culmin 75th session, allow us look futur greater optimism.",0
1333,"again, reaffirm collect commit multilateralism. unit nation must remain common compass.",0
1334,long live unit nation,0
1335,long live intern cooper,0
1336,thank you.hon’bl prime minist,0
1337,govern people’ republ bangladesh,0
1338,"name allah, gracious, merci",0
1339,assamu alaikum.,0
1340,congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly.,0
1341,pass unpreced crisi histori humankind due covid-19 pandemic. also first time un’ histori gener assembl take place digit platform without presenc person head state head govern un headquart new york.,0
1342,"gener assembl hall evok deep emot me. hall 1974, father bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman deliv speech first time bangla head govern newli independ country. also privileg attend gener assembl session in-person 16 times. emphas world peac solidar speeches. head government, year deliv 17th speech assembly.",0
1343,"take opportun pay tribut frontlin fighter includ health worker public servant work tirelessli ensur safeti affect countri population. also commend unit nation secretary- gener bold leadership multilater effort crisis. bangladesh among first rank countri endors secretary-general’ variou initiatives, includ global ceasefir appeal.",0
1344,"second world war creat opportun countri come togeth effort cooperate, establish unit nations, similarli pandem emphas need collect action guidanc right leadership.",0
1345,"profound gratitude, rememb undisput leader bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman, greatest bangale time. taught bangale nation stand firm world end exploitation, deprivation, oppression. follow footsteps, abl secur respect posit bangladesh comiti nation. august assembl declared, “the nobl ideal enshrin charter unit nation ideal million peopl made suprem sacrifice”.",0
1346,"bangale nation fulli commit build world order, aspir men peac justic realized.” statement inde bold express multilateralism. reflect bangabandhu made 1974 continu remain equal relev even today, grappl current crisis.",0
1347,"year particularli signific bangale nation, celebr birth centenari father nation. reflect life, struggle, sacrific celebr achievements, sourc encourag brighter futur give us hope cope challeng covid-19. birth centenary, we, behalf depriv peopl nation pay rich tribut bangabandhu.",0
1348,"remember, deep pain, brutal assassin father, father bangale nation presid bangabandhu sheikh mujibur rahman 15 august 1975 along 18 member famili includ mother, three brothers, two sisters-in law. live younger sister fortun spare countri time. stay abroad refuge six long years. mention assembl world see repetit heinous, brutal unjust kill ever.",0
1350,"however, bangladesh begin took initi put equal emphas live livelihood people. announc stimulu packag aim minim impact pandem busi productivity. greatli expand social safeti net coverage.",0
1351,"everi year, alloc around 39 billion taka freedom fighters. allow elderly, widows, destitut women, disabl backward section societi benefit approx 9.1 million families.",0
1352,"readili arrang food assist peopl render jobless due covid-19. arrang benefit nearli 10 million families. provid scholarship 4 million students. also given cash incent five million peopl includ farmers, worker labor affect pandemic. ensur healthcar common people, provid 30 type medicin free cost 18,000 commun clinic union health centres.",0
1354,announc 31-point direct soon detect covid-19 case country. launch vigor awar rais campaign well distribut person protect kit aim contain spread corona virus. result contain season diseas otherwis common country.,0
1355,"quickli identifi impend challeng financi sector announc 21 stimulu packages. packag includ sector exportintens industries, safeti secur workers, work capit small medium enterprises, loan facil export growth, assist farmer agriculture, loan employ generation, interest relief affect busi enterprises, refinanc scheme insur health workers. far, announc stimulu packag worth $13.25 billion, equival 4.03 per cent total gdp.",0
1357,"hope covid-19 vaccin soon avail world. imper treat vaccin ‘global public good.’ need ensur time avail vaccin countri time. provid technic know-how patents, pharmaceut industri bangladesh capac go vaccin product mass-scale.",0
1358,effort contain pandem achiev agenda 2030 go hand- in-hand. bangladesh’ second voluntari nation review  vnr  present year show well track achiev sustain develop goals.,0
1359,"work hard transform bangladesh middle-incom countri 2021, attain sdg 2030, develop countri 2041 prosper delta 2100.",0
1360,"cannot emphas import leverag science, technology, innov close digit divid mobil resourc technolog transfer. also crucial graduat ldc recent graduat one accord scaled-up intern support incent packag transit post-transit phase minim pandemic-trigg impediments.",0
1361,migrant worker frontlin contributor economi host home countri alike. mani lost job pandem mani sent back home. alloc $361 million returne migrant workers. critic help regain employ post-covid-19 job market. urg intern commun migrant receiv countri treat migrant worker fairli empathy.,0
1362,"pandem worsen pre-exist vulner climate- vulner countries. bangladesh, deal dual impact recent flood cyclon amphan even pandemic. current presid climat vulner forum  cvf  v-20 group minist finance, bangladesh would lead forum map sustain climate-resili pathway crisis. also stand readi contribut secur construct product outcom glasgow cop.",0
1363,"beij declar platform action help intern commun come long way ensur gender equality. celebr 25th anniversari declaration, need strengthen resolv mutual cooper address critic area concern. bangladesh, close 72.6 per cent overal gender gap. women’ contribut remain core nation development. also forefront pandem respons recoveri efforts.",0
1364,"bangladesh implement special programm develop children. current presid unicef execut board, lead effort address exist disparity. time, remain vigil ensur health crisi turn children’ crisis.",0
1365,"“friendship malic none” fundament principl foreign policy. inspir foreign polici dictum, bangladesh consist contribut intern peac secur establish cultur peace.",0
1366,"pandemic, see rise hate speech, xenophobia, intolerance. embrac spirit cultur peac help address worri trends. currently, largest troop polic contribut countri world peacekeep missions. peacekeep put live line secur sustain peac conflict-ravag countries. intern commun must ensur safeti security.",0
1367,"year celebr 20th anniversari women, peac secur agenda. one origin proponents, call due recognit women’ role peac security. alreadi formul nation action plan regard.",0
1369,consist strongli support global quest nuclear weapon free world. end support aspir develop countri benefit peac use nuclear technology.,0
1370,pain experi worst form genocid crime human nation endur struggl independ motiv us support legitim caus palestinian people.,0
1371,"bangladesh provid temporari shelter 1.1 million forcibl displac myanmar nationals. three year elapsed. regrettably, singl rohingya could repatriated. problem creat myanmar solut must found myanmar. request intern commun play effect role solut crisis.",0
1372,"pandem inde aggrav exist global challenges. also reinforc indispens multilateralism. 75th anniversari unit nations, commit multilater embodi un charter remain unflinching. nation level, despit numer challenges, commit uphold valu multilater work toward build “shonar bangla” free poverti exploit base democrat principl full enjoy human rights, envis father nation. birth centenari father nation, pledg nation world.",0
1373,thank again.,0
1374,khoda hafez.,0
1375,"joi bangla, joi bangabandhu",0
1376,"may bangladesh live forever.mr. president,",0
1377,"mr. secretary-general,",0
1378,"dear colleagues,",0
1379,honour privileg address 75th session unit nation gener assembly.,0
1380,pleas accept congratul election. wish everi success seventy-fifth un gener assembl session.,0
1381,"coronaviru overwhelm agenda institut throughout world. yet, theme virtual meet suggest us someth more. seventy- five year sinc inception, unit nation debt humanity.",0
1382,wit shrink space freedom violat human right intern law. multilater key un approach collect solidarity-bas solut global region problem put test.,0
1383,"circumstances, world need un ever moral leader modern world. believ un mission, drawn 75 year ago, capabl surviv crisi organ — un reviv idea born leagu nation save futur gener scourg war.",0
1384,un go structur crisi requir reform revitalization. un gener assembl 75th anniversari present good opportun intensifi work secur council reform. bulgaria support start negoti intergovernment level direction.,0
1385,"earli 2020, un secretary-gener outlin four threat humanity:",0
1386,¥	geopolit tension devast conflict ,0
1387,¥	the climat crisi ,0
1388,"¥	grow global mistrust,",0
1389,¥	the dark side digit world.,0
1390,"shortli afterward, new threat covid-19 multipli risk global catastrophe.",0
1391,covid-19 pandem threaten rule-bas intern order.,0
1392,fals opposit “health economy” emerged. protection caus disrupt suppli chains. asymmetr socio-econom chang exacerb inequ danger destabil conflict.,0
1393,"“infodemic” — wave true fals information, overwhelm people, heighten concerns.",0
1394,"25 march year, un secretary-general, un humanitarian affair emerg relief coordinator, unicef execut director, world health organ director-gener announc covid-19 global humanitarian respons plan. practic entir un system commit humanitarian plan.",0
1395,"un prove leader explor needs, fundraising, management, delivery, distribut humanitarian aid popul countri conflict crisis.",0
1396,bulgaria welcom adopt secur council resolut 2532  2020  secretary-general’ call global ceasefir protect vulner popul groups.,0
1397,"along un, continu support work mechanisms, includ world health organ world trade organization. institut contribut global, multilateral, coordin respons address immedi long-term effect covid-19, well address futur global crises.",0
1398,"european union region organ join un initi global respons pandemic, build mechan multilateralism. strateg respons european union multilateralism, combin competit sustain economi solidarity.",0
1399,"statement allianc multilateralism, bulgaria join 26 septemb 2019, line four direct un action announc secretary-gener — cybersecurity, climate, security, fight lethal autonom weapon systems.",0
1400,"countri took activ part alliance’ meet strengthen multilater health architecture. manner, reaffirm commit support multilater cooper fight covid-19 pandemic.",0
1401,"year, bulgaria mark 65th anniversari access world organization. member unit nation european union, readi take responsibilities:",0
1402,¥	support lead role un multilater cooper tackl global pandem ,0
1403,"¥	activ work implement european union’ prioriti action respons pandemic, particip time initi global respons challeng ",0
1404,¥	a import particip mediat integr process southeast europ ,0
1405,¥	contribut peacekeep oper ensur unhind access,0
1406,humanitarian assist ,0
1407,¥	a construct member human right council 2019-2021 ,0
1408,¥	and activ member ecosoc period 2021-2023 ,0
1409,¥	implement un framework convent climat chang,0
1410,pari agreement.,0
1411,"bulgaria join team europ packag part european union measur support third countri tackl pandemic. promptli restructur nation program develop humanitarian aid. one million euro earmark emerg humanitarian aid, health care, support socio-econom development.",0
1412,"goal support vulner group among neighbour western balkans, eastern partnership countries, syria, iraq, yemen, afghanistan, unit nation relief work agenc palestin refugees.",0
1413,bulgaria provid humanitarian assist kind financi contribut unicef’ activ support children suffer tragedi lebanon.,0
1414,"recov neg effect pandem western balkans, particularli import use establish cooper mechan effectively: berlin process — bulgaria co-chair republ north macedonia year, south-east european cooper process, region cooper council, central european free trade agreement. effort aim improv connect secur region.",0
1415,develop good-neighbourli relat western balkan neighbour european union member state particularli import context.,0
1416,"reaffirm support secretary-general’ initi action peacekeeping. un peacekeep oper epitom multilater intern solidarity. coincidentally, first oper deploy limit conting blue helmet middl east monitor ceasefir israel arab neighbours.",0
1417,bulgaria support lead role un effort resolv conflict region middl east north africa.,0
1418,"welcom us-sponsor agreement normal relat israel unit arab emirates, israel bahrain. major diplomat breakthrough could open new page histori middl east chang live peoples.",0
1419,suspend plan unilater annex occupi palestinian territori prevent humanitarian catastroph context ongo pandemic. also step toward avoid seriou violat human right intern law.,0
1420,"welcom support effort unit nation special coordin middl east peac process, nikolay mladenov.",0
1421,civil conflict syria remain seriou destabil factor. polit transit line un secur council resolut 2254  2015  2012 geneva communiqu singl way overcom crisi allevi situat civilian need. would also like voic country’ support african union’ effort maintain peac secur contin situat complic covid-19 pandemic.,0
1422,"caus seriou concern countri ongo conflict eastern ukraine, humanitarian situat continu deteriorate. bulgaria reaffirm support ukraine’ sovereignty, unity, territori integr accord un gener assembl resolut 68 262 2014. bulgaria among cosponsor resolution. support effort within normandi format achiev progress implement minsk agreements.",0
1423,"first donor campaign may year, bulgaria, intern committe red cross unit nation offic coordin humanitarian affairs, redirect ukrain €100,000 develop cooper funds, well packag humanitarian aid kind combat covid-19.",0
1424,follow situat belaru concern. bulgaria stand behind right demand belarusian peopl democrat futur free fair elections. effort intern commun aim support assist hold inclus nation dialogu peac resolut crisis.,0
1425,"last least, bulgaria, within nato, develop transatlant cooper solidar condit pandemic. strateg dialogu bulgaria unit states, began januari year, also cover practic dimens overcom consequ pandemic.",0
1426,"within framework global network “respons protect” un member states, bulgaria support need share respons prevent atroc covid-19 pandemic. recal appeal world health organ respons countri protect health safeti citizen time crisis.",0
1427,"global pandem also threat time implement un agenda 2030. bulgaria, togeth european union member states, fulli commit implement 17 sustain develop goal decad action.",0
1428,"get current crisi mean return old way life. need step new paradigm implement long-term econom measures. full implement agenda 2030, pari agreement addi ababa action plan critic prepar world futur system shocks.",0
1429,"un altern term develop intern law multilater cooperation. member state european union, bulgaria champion strong unit nation organ main partner solid foundat rules-bas multilater order.",0
1430,"conclusion, would like refer appeal two nobel peac prize winner 1994. order achiev common goals, brought us togeth forum, use imagin memory. need leap beyond imagin prevent oliv branch fall hand .",0
1431,"thank you, mr. presidentin name allah, gracious, merci peace, mercy, bless god",0
1432,"mr. president, would like, beginning, congratul elect presid gener assembl current session, wish success manag work.",0
1433,also thank previou presid effort conduct work last session great effici skill.,0
1434,"pleasur join celebr seventy-fifth anniversari unit nations, past decad contribut reinforc intern cooper preserv world peac benefit mankind.",0
1435,"also pleas commend tireless effort excel secretary-general, mr. antonio guterres, strengthen role organization, settl disput propos solut initiatives, order reach global order base consolid protect human rights, achiev highest level develop equal full particip member state esteem intern system.",0
1436,"context, kingdom bahrain stress adher respect intern obligations, repres preserv strength stabil intern system continu role achiev peace.",0
1437,"also share unit nation proper vision underlin import effect collect action face challeng dangers, foremost difficult condit sever development human repercuss world experienc due covid-19 pandemic.",0
1438,"emerg challeng proven intern commun dire need put asid differences, strengthen area human solidarity, stand unit face health threats, improv futur readi prevent risk properli fortifi societies.",0
1439,"hail call secretary-gener unit nation ceasefir conflict area world confront pandemic, call gain widespread global acceptance.",0
1440,"import context, kingdom bahrain keen, sinc first moment pandem outbreak, extend hand cooperation, solidar coordin countri world special organizations, world health organization, face difficult circumstances. form nation team, head crown prince, develop implement integr emerg plan, implement mani nation measures, line best prevent remedi practices, order preserve, first foremost, health safeti citizen resid alike. taken account urgent need mitig econom social impacts, tirelessli work diversifi support program regard, aim safeguard prosper stabil dear people, speedi recoveri nation economy.",0
1441,"keen preserv secur stabil region, embodi resolut approach open coexist all, announc establish relat state israel, send civil messag affirm hand extend comprehens peace, best guarante futur peopl region.",0
1442,"courag step taken brotherli unit arab emir reviv hope peac stabil region success bless step. reach “histor peac agreement” israel, auspic effort unit state america, exchang stop israel’ annex palestinian lands, uae enhanc opportun peace, reduc tensions, given peopl region new era understanding, rapproch peac coexistence, preserv firm posit palestinian issue. commend appreci effort exert unit state america accomplish import strateg steps.",0
1443,"context, kingdom bahrain call intensifi effort end palestinian-isra conflict accord two-stat solution. consid cornerston achiev comprehens peac lead establish independ palestinian state, east jerusalem capital, base resolut intern legitimaci arab peac initiative, order enter new stage work extend bridg good neighborli relat build develop common interest countri region.",0
1444,"good opportun use import platform, express deep appreci pioneer role hard work brotherli kingdom saudi arabia, led brother, custodian two holi mosques, king salman bin abdulaziz a1 saud, term lay foundat secur peac region world whole, manner take account interest parties, also remark influenti effort made current presid g20 formul “new decade”, aspir peopl world prosper stabil fulfilled. so, underlin firm approach countri stand alongsid kingdom saudi arabia posit circumstances.",0
1445,"also cannot fail express full support continu effort brotherli arab republ egypt consolid region secur stability, genuin endeavor achiev peace, recent initi brother presid abdel fattah al sisi, gave hope brotherli libyan peopl confront resist foreign interference, contribut rebuild capabl region’ countries, base egypt’ pioneer role protect maintain arab nation security.",0
1446,"mr. president, distinguish audience,",0
1447,"success prosper societi link achiev secur stability, kingdom bahrain alway pursued.",0
1448,"activ countri within wider intern community, underlin need acceler effort achiev human prosper strengthen area solidar consensu umbrella global goals. commit sinc foundat long-stand organization, congratul anniversari establish renew start crucial moment contemporari history.",0
1449,"proud part play this, commit support unit nation order reach desir destin achiev legitim aspir peopl rebuild bridg trust love, reach secure, stabl peac world.",0
1450,"thank you, mr. president, may peac upon you.colleagu head state govern ",0
1451,"un secretary-general, excel antonio guterr ",0
1452,"presid gener assembly, excel volkan bazkir ",0
1453,excellencies:,0
1454,good afternoon.,0
1455,"permit outset congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly, assur unwav support govern commonwealth bahama tenure.",0
1456,"also wish thank predecessor, excel tiijani muhammad-bande, stellar effort guid work 74th session gener assembly.",0
1457,address assembl time world still reel seismic level shock covid-19 pandem unleash global community.,0
1458,covid-19 pandem trigger unpreced crisi halt global econom activ threaten global public health social well-being.,0
1459,twenty-seven million confirm covid-19 case across globe continu increas speak.,0
1460,"behalf govern peopl bahamas, express solidar member state fight covid-19 extend sincer condol loss life.",0
1461,"address assembl last year, aftermath hurrican dorian, implor world leader treat global climat emerg greatest challeng face humanity.",0
1462,"littl know month later, even greater challeng would emerge, forc world come grind halt, proport wit sinc second world war.",0
1463,"hence, theme 75th session, futur want, unit nation need reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action, relev applic current reality.",0
1464,tourism serv main econom earner bahamas.,0
1467,"small island develop countri like bahama alway appear oper viciou recoveri mode cycle, deal success exogen shock climat events.",0
1468,"bahama experienc major hurrican 2015, 2016, 2017, septemb 2018, hurrican dorian, largest atlant storm record history.",0
1469,"un initi assess valu loss damag incur $3.4 billion. infrastructur hous project ongoing, grappl impact covid19, continu reach intern partner much-need assist restor rebuild islands.",0
1470,"donor confer coordin unit nation develop programm held nassau 13 januari 2020, wish express heartfelt appreci govern pledg financi resourc assist made conference. govern look forward full realiz pledg made essenti ongo recoveri efforts.”",0
1471,"economi small island develop states, includ caribbean community, constant assault variou extern shock beyond control.",0
1472,"group countri among disaster- prone area world. pandemics, hurricanes, climat events, discrimin low-incom countries, middle-incom countries, develop economies.",0
1473,"henc compel question remains, middle-incom countri still assess intern financi institut use outdat methodolog give consider country’ level exposure, vulner abil recov exogen shocks.",0
1474,note eclac’ review covid-19 impact estim development achiev caribbean latin america revers least decade.,0
1475,world bank project point least 100 million peopl fall extrem poverty.,0
1476,therefor reiter call institution vulner index decision-mak process intern financi institut intern donor community.,0
1477,also echo call region capit caribbean resili fund.,0
1478,"decis g20 group suspend debt servic payment least develop countri commendable, offer concess extend econom group well.",0
1479,"given immeasur stress strain place global health care system suppli chains, commend secretary-gener continu effort combat pandemic.",0
1480,"remain cautious optimist viabl covid-19 vaccin distant future, note collabor effort covax facil secur arrang develop countries.",0
1481,develop countri abl access vaccin via transpar procur process afford market rates.,0
1482,"salut doctors, nurses, healthcar worker frontline, sacrif health order assist ten million peopl around world.",0
1483,"real heroes, global commun owe immens gratitude.",0
1484,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations, allow pandem dampen spirit detract commemor august institut extens list achiev milestones.",0
1485,"multilater been, continu be, effect conduit small island state voic heard polici requir advanced.",0
1486,"globally, continu see unpreced climat environment challenges. worldwide, declin 85 per cent area viabl wetlands.",0
1487,"scientif review reveal sixti per cent ocean area impact advers human activ includ overfishing, pollut acidif chemicals.",0
1488,bahama continu play role preserv healthi marin land environ includ expans marin protect area heritag sites.,0
1489,therefor welcom schedul biodivers summit 30 september.,0
1490,continu remain activ engag negoti toward intern treati sustain use conserv marin biodivers area beyond nation jurisdiction.,0
1491,"context, pleas inform bahama seek renew membership council intern maritim organization, count invalu support member state re-election.",0
1492,covid-19 pandem spur acceler util access inform commun technolog especi young peopl econom challeng communities.,0
1493,"trend must continu post covid-19 environment, well promot stem career young peopl educ potenti act great equalizer.",0
1494,bahama care formul gradual re-open countri visitors. hope welcom tourist year.,0
1495,"however, adjust new normal, acknowledg countri surviv pandem alone.",0
1496,"also take occas reiter support end economic, commerci financi embargo cuba.",0
1497,"accordingly, bahama join intern commun vote favor gener assembly’ annual resolut agenda item.",0
1498,"pleas assur bahamas’ unwav commit unit nation pledg adher always, un charter principl organ founded.",0
1499,"thank you.dear president,",0
1501,"human life general, that, aspect social life, aren’t mani thing import dialogue. therefore, utmost import that, year well, despit health crisis, largest dialogu platform mankind still happening.",0
1502,"first all, would like congratul mr. tijjani muhammad-band highli success presid 74th session unit nation gener assembly. would like put particular emphasi that, mind effort mr. band put forth, along unit nation secretary-general, mr. antonio guterres, order enabl gener assembl held year.",0
1503,"would also like congratul mr. volkan bozkir elected, messag alway count full support bosnia herzegovina secur product work gener assembl follow year.",0
1504,"dear president,",0
1506,"time, danger plagu has, instant, block physic contact traffic continents, regions, states, and, eventually, everyday meet people. way effici fight physic distanc other. mind human habit people’ need socialize, demanding, and, end, even traumatic, caus enorm damage, primarili economy, overal qualiti life. still, one forget due lack vaccin proper therapy, way fight human lives, preserv import econom growth anyth else.",0
1507,"even though, within first wave pandemic, physic distanc other, strong solidar emerg brought us closer together, internationally, within specif societies. opportun wit numer communities, time fight deadli pandemic, still provid assist others, vulner  allow turn inward lock down.",0
1508,behalf bosnia herzegovina would like thank friend come aid  let us alon difficult moments.,0
1509,"although great resourc disposal, also tri respond appeal aid.",0
1510,"like great misfortune, one also remind us much direct one another, import friends.",0
1511,"particularli appreci fact bosnia herzegovina, although eu member state, includ eu public procur system. would like use opportun point vaccin coronaviru must avail entir mankind.",0
1512,"indisput fact past years, strong crisi multilater present scene. intern organ general, includ unit nations, becom object strong challeng even dispute.",0
1513,"allow share observ multilater organizations, even time pandemic, shown extraordinari signific today’ global world, base interdepend necess constant cooperation. pandem shown largest problem today longer solv one, three, five state individually. difficulti solv transnational, multilater response, base dialogu cooper mani state possible.",0
1514,"particularli abl wit european continent, histor agreement packag econom recoveri european union worth two trillion euros, indic european uniti extrem strong serv exampl part world.",0
1515,"strength european union also demonstr fact direct enorm financi resourc serv needs, rather also support countries, includ bosnia herzegovina, countri road toward membership european union.",0
1516,"bosnia herzegovina would also like use opportun express gratitud toward european union strong support receiv economi health care system, extraordinari stabil potential.",0
1517,"eu assist packag bosnia herzegovina, worth 300 million euro total, purpos resolut econom consequ pandemic, certainli addit strengthen commit european integration, and, time, secured, european union, stabil nearest neighborhood.",0
1518,"end year mark 25 year sinc sign dayton peac accord, stop war bosnia herzegovina. moment signed, accord seem frail untenable, yet proven strong resili stabil framework manag resist numer challenges.",0
1519,"main problem dayton peac accord fact part implement all, implement partially. annex iv, constitut bosnia herzegovina, presuppos full implement entir accord. defici remedied. dayton peac accord must fulli implement  decis intern court must respect equal right citizen must secur accord european convent human rights. particularli pertain expel person return place resid war.",0
1520,"past twenty-f year bosnia herzegovina live peace, irreplac signific mind experi 1990s, well experi numer crisi area emerg throughout world.",0
1521,"talk shortcom dayton peac accord, never forget peac accord, whose primari goal secur implement sophist constitut standards, quit natur requir updat possibl wide polit consensus.",0
1522,high signific relev polit subject countri deepli awar fact foundat dayton peac accord chang wide consensu agreement all.,0
1523,"course, situat mean quick simpl changes, and, therefore, quick simpl progress mani expect demand. time, situat guarante bosnia herzegovina, signific level secur protection.",0
1524,"gener consensu bosnia herzegovina irreplac signific preserv peace, thus, peac accord base upon. give hope future, societi bosnia herzegovina increasingli preoccupi issu development, enter new phase histor road.",0
1525,bosnia herzegovina share concern un gener assembl due unresolv conflict current crisi areas.,0
1526,"offer full support un secretary-gener antonio guterres’ call global ceasefire, escal coronaviru pandemic.",0
1527,"even though, recently, decreas violenc syria, quit awar fact conflict continu sporad forms, particularli concern extrem difficult humanitarian situat intern displac person syria.",0
1528,"concern progress achiev end conflict libya, yemen ukraine, and, therefore, call intens involv bodi intern commun order achiev perman end conflicts.",0
1529,"bosnia herzegovina believ secur perman peac stabil relat israel palestin achiev diplomat efforts, within framework intern law, and, therefore, offer full support efforts.",0
1530,bosnia herzegovina support dialogu pristina belgrad led auspic european union unit state america.,0
1531,"bosnia herzegovina serious, reliabl resolut partner strengthen european secur area  activ contribut region effort goal strengthen stabil secur western balkans.",0
1532,"countri constantli strengthen capac combat terrorism, form violent extremism, intern crime, manufactur traffick narcotics. bosnia herzegovina particip region intern initi contribut intern security, past period, made complet turn countri requir intern assist sens militari missions, becam countri whose soldier polic offic partak peac mission throughout world.",0
1533,"good cooper neighbor countri numer issues, place issu relationship neighbor top foreign polici priorities. goal resolv open issu neighbor dialogue, base principl mutual respect reciproc full respect intern law.",0
1534,"respect wish convey concern citizen bosnia herzegovina, due fact import issues, issu agreement state border, resolv neighbor countries. bosnia herzegovina sign agreement state border montenegro, yet, today, agreement sign serbia croatia. bosnia herzegovina believ agreement need conclud soon possible, full respect intern recogn border bosnia herzegovina full support consist implement intern law.",0
1536,"plan addit strengthen compet institutions, deal issue, protect border, increas assist local commun suffer greatest burden crisis. order fulli resolv issue, need much greater support european union, well cooper countri migrant origin from.",0
1537,"migrant intent stay bosnia herzegovina. goal go toward western europe. enter western balkan region, bosnia herzegovina, european union, then, western border bosnia herzegovina, barrier place unnecessarili linger bosnia herzegovina, repres enorm problem us.",0
1539,"furthermore, tri sign appropri readmiss agreement countri migrant origin from. countri manag achiev agreement, use opportun call upon countries, whose citizen bosnia herzegovina, join us process.",0
1540,"seriou social problem bosnia herzegovina emigr young educ people. struggl democrat deficit, develop countri european union attract young educ peopl bosnia herzegovina offer significantli favor job overal existenti opportun well-regul systems.",0
1541,"way us effici fight trend, build societi base principl equal opportunities, polit stabil legal security, possibl young peopl plan future.",0
1542,"slowly, persistently, approach goal thank particularli credibl perspect eu membership. regard, start implement oblig opinion european commiss regard applic bosnia herzegovina eu membership, expect compet institut fulfil entir set oblig soon possibl upcom period.",0
1543,"furthermore, equal import continu fulfil oblig bosnia herzegovina regard relat nato, unreservedli endors law decis adopt institut bosnia herzegovina issue.",0
1544,"despit difficulti functioning, bosnia herzegovina slowli make progress, ultim commit remain build safe, stabl prosper state, will, equal member intern community, contribut safeti prosper global community.",0
1546,"naturally, speaker ignor topic coronaviru pandemic.",0
1547,"pandem affect us all. moreover, problem remain us, least near future.",0
1548,lead expert analyst activ talk global consequ impact world polit economy.,0
1549,mani assess speak “paradigm shifts” “tecton changes”.,0
1550,perhaps. time tell.,0
1551,"unfortunately, pandem made clear “intern community” talk often has, fact, fail live expect peak crisis.",0
1552,logic easier cope challeng go alon obvious prevailed.,0
1553,"virtual everybodi return drove apart countri origin, close border stop contact outsid world!",0
1554,"respond challenge, belaru follow consid dubiou path. close isol ourselves.",0
1555,immedi ask question: promot global open one anoth past decades?,0
1556,initi believ continu believ success collect efforts. reli continu reli potenti “intern community.,0
1557,"unfortunately, without exploitation, wherebi countri begun accus other allegedli wrong thing fight pandemic.",0
1559,"current situation, specif nation context becam determin factor fight coronavirus.",0
1560,"belarus, chose approach.",0
1561,"base two compon optim preserv viabil state, primarili economy, ensur maximum protect population.",0
1562,"approach, situat belaru shown, paid off. situat concern spread coronaviru diseas world today fulli confirm this.",0
1563,"mani assess conclusions, today alreadi say certainti outbreak coronaviru disease, one hand, reveal urgent need “strong” state and, other, clearli show interconnect world is.",0
1565,togeth must turn crisi opportun improv world. must learn work together.,0
1566,"pandem temporarili overshadow world problem conflicts, includ area security, which, unfortunately, decreasing.",0
1567,"regard, seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation  un  end second world war, found member unit nations, republ belaru appeal member states, particularli member secur council, take special respons organization’ oper implement tasks.",0
1569,world lack now.,0
1570,"forgotten dialogu is, and, even remember, forgotten use it.",0
1573,"year again, gener assembl first committee, propos draft resolut ban new weapon mass destruction, tradit enjoy univers support virtual everi member state organization. call state co-sponsor support draft resolution.",0
1574,"refer anniversari end second world war, would like stress deep convict one countri suffer greatest loss it.",0
1575,tragic lesson twentieth century’ worst catastroph must remain key compon “herd immunity” emerg new global region confrontations.,0
1576,"charter unit nation states, organ found precis “save succeed gener scourg war”.",0
1577,cooper base principl charter altern “natur selection” “surviv fittest”.,0
1578,"given modern technolog inform capabl avail states, also non-stat actors, must fulli awar risk caus political, econom militari confrontation, irrespons competit provoc undesir countries.",0
1579,one import point.,0
1580,"regret note grow attempt countri abus un tribune, includ secur council, satisfi narrow polit ambitions.",0
1581,"refer to, among things, focus attent certain western countri situat belarus, current difficult owe circumst impos us, from, all, outside.",0
1582,"let remind everyon peopl made decis presidenti elect belaru august, choos favour stabl prosper state, peace, good neighbourli sustain development.",0
1583,"however, instead respect choice, see aspir influenc situat country.",0
1584,"sinc fail attempt impos “colour revolution” us, experienc extern interfer aim undermin state system.",0
1585,"individu statements, border cynicism, western neighbour alleg concern belarus’ sovereignti welfar fact noth attempt plung countri chao anarchy, set belaru back develop mani years.",0
1586,"urg partner show wisdom, restraint impartiality.",0
1588,"futur republ belaru decid people, repeatedli demonstr throughout country’ history. decid barricades, civil dialogue, includ process constitut reform, alreadi begun country.",0
1589,would like stress firmli reject practic unilater coerciv measur intern relations.,0
1590,"vivid exampl action decades-long trade, financi econom blockad cuba northern neighbour — unit states.",0
1591,mainten “suffocating” instrument pressur sovereign state — without even consid situat caus coronaviru diseas pandem — pose specif threat fraught last repercussions. trade war arbitrari financi econom sanction instrument polit pressur must stop.,0
1592,"anoth critic issu “health” global economy, seriou trouble. pandem threaten undo achiev sinc adopt 2030 agenda sustain development.",0
1593,"urgent need chang approach socioeconom develop postpandem era becom increasingli clear. belaru support propos increas invest health care, infrastructur education, provid broad access digit technolog ensur proper manag natur resources.",0
1594,share endors approach boost econom recoveri rethink econom model term promot “green economy”.,0
1595,"part, belaru continu move consist toward achiev sustain develop goals, base 2030 agenda. country’ effort aim achiev balanc econom develop protect environment, promot principl green economy, implement “smart city” concept develop precis agriculture. work carri involv stakehold within countri close cooper intern partners.",0
1597,"conclusion, would like note simpl import life lesson: “everi cloud silver lining”. born wit transform events.",0
1598,"indeed, 2020 special year world, forc us restructur life humankind. new histori written eye — world longer before. learn lessons, must carri past mistak future. must build new world — friendli people, free war conflicts, stable, predict prosperous. world arm benefit technolog progress use development, destruction.",0
1599,"day one hear lot critic un. sometim justified, sometim not.",0
1600,republ belaru emphat share follow message: organ must keep pace times.,0
1601,"republ belaru signatori countri un charter, assum respons promot implement main goal organization. countri continu work preserv develop creativ unifi principl un.excellency,",0
1602,"interest see econom social council, like entir un develop system, provid effect assist state implement sustain develop goals.",0
1603,"need effect effici un secur council put end numer war arm conflicts, includ take account need preserv territori integr compli intern law.",0
1604,want see activ gener assembl — make time import decis entir spectrum press world problems.,0
1605,"renew time, organ remain need peopl planet.",0
1606,"begin intervent pay tribut men women worldwid selflessli hold line defens covid-19 care protect love ones, risk live doing. also honor memori mani die date die even speak, unfortun victim insidi virus.",0
1607,"belize, work assidu contain spread. inde close borders, impos curfews, mandat use mask social distancing, quarantin infect person search test person come contact person known carri virus.",0
1608,health calam avoid thu far suffer wors econom shock histori country.,0
1610,"noc chair prime minist leader opposition. represent churches, privat sector, civil societi trade unions. govern also establish covid-19 task force, chair chief execut offic ministri human develop social transformation. frontlin agenc social partner includ task force. task forc manag day day public health respons communications. regretfully, june 2020, leader opposit resign noc.",0
1611,"govern took immedi step shore health facilities, and, time, put place measur eas econom blow belizean includ introduct $10-million programm food assist us$24.5m programm unemploy relief.",0
1613,"effort initi puni comparison magnitud impact pandemic. econom growth expect contract 20 25 per cent, much three time global average. and, still sure seen wors pandemic.",0
1615,truli present caught cross hair two grave crise hardli limit natur resourc determin surviv bolster position.,0
1616,"regretfully, intern respons covid pandemic, unlik respons climat catastrophe, continu tepid weaker nation peopl bear brunt ravag global missteps.",0
1617,"blame superced coordin cooper  platitud superced support vulnerable. two crise lay bare system ineptitud global financi econom institut inequ rule decis make procedures. rich power nation fixat preserv competit advantage, seemingli heedless failur institut suffer peopl whose need ostens design cater to.",0
1618,consequ global misstep particularli evid small island develop state worldwide.,0
1619,"even though least culpabl missteps, affect consequences. forc pay debilit debt must absorb antiqu notion develop measur incom per capita regard endem vulnerability. pay lost decad develop develop potenti temperatur rise sea around us. face pandemic, main global polici option parad us would us pay recovery. this, mr. president, gravest social injustic unit nation cannot afford perpetuate.",0
1620,"simpli put, none us luxuri time repeat folli past fals hope produc differ results. bush fire west coast unit states, hyperact atlant hurrican season, drought central america, flood africa global pandem stark remind fast approach limit planetari sustain human survival. scienc give us decade, much, cours correct. stake could higher — includ unit nation seventi five year work toward includ vaunt 2030 agenda sustain development, pari agreement. multilater frontline.",0
1621,"us belize, next step unit nation manifest.",0
1623,pandem also reveal entrench dualiti have nots. intern commun must therefor elev protect vulner highest priority.,0
1624,"pandem provid preview risk expos continu busi usual. must therefor nation rise unison challeng reset global trajectori planet people, line alreadi agre multilater agenda: erad poverty, secur climat future, ensur human right justic all.",0
1625,behalf beliz small island develop state repres wish put forward five point action agenda unit nations.,0
1626,"first, let us get recoveri right.",0
1627,"tragedi covid-19 symptomat tragedi commons. push planetari boundari beyond sustain humanity, threaten health much earth. occur land ocean. recoveri covid-19 opportun acceler recoveri unsustain use planetari resourc build resili futur shocks.",0
1628,secretary-gener unit nation champion six climate- relat action shape recoveri work ahead.,0
1629,"core, principl people. promot job security, healthi environments. sustain growth transit climat resili environment sensit global economy.",0
1630,"principl operationalized, take us well beyond recoveri set us pathway jumpstart climat rescu safeguard children’ future.",0
1631,futur depend hold global warm well 1.5 c.,0
1632,"therefor second challenge, must keep pressur major emitt increas climat ambit acceler climat action 1.5c.",0
1633,"2020 deadlin bring forward new climat plan strengthen target climat action strategi achiev net zero emiss 2050. yet see level ambit need bend emiss curv close mitig gap 1.5. beliz commend china announc pursu path carbon neutral 2060 look forward forthcom climat plans. imper histor respons walk walk. beliz urg unit kingdom incom presid twenty-sixth climat chang conference, european union, unit state america put best plan forward close year.",0
1634,"beliz state placencia ambit forum, small island develop state resolv deliv ambiti climat plan inde trailblazers. beliz come forward climat plan. nation determin contribut featur commit enhanc natur base solut amid grow global awar potenti ecosystem contribut rais climat ambit foster sustain development.",0
1635,natur base solut reli viabil ecosystem biodivers support. reason unit nation must third challeng address urgenc protect biodiversity.,0
1636,"biodivers loss ecosystem degrad like climat chang occur unpreced rates. acceler result continu precipit irrevers harm earth systems. fail stop revers trend, damag global economic, social polit resili stabil signific render achiev sdg impossible.",0
1637,"recognit crisis, beliz join leader’ pledg natur set urgent action taken within next decad “put natur biodivers path recoveri 2030”.",0
1638,"part pledge, commit final matter prioriti high sea treati conserv sustain use marin biolog diversity. high sea cover nearli two-third  64%  world’ ocean, around one percent water protect today. vast area planet warrant protect conserv biodivers maintain healthi ocean.",0
1639,"invit join leader’ pledge, endors action part global commit un decad action sustain development.",0
1640,"evid forego actions, object whether recov better, increas climat ambition, revers biodivers loss, safeguard sustain develop agenda.",0
1641,"covid-19 chang script decad action sustain development. like hurricane, pandem cataclysmic. year hard-earn develop gain vanished. wors yet, countri like own, concern global polici respons pauciti action persist challeng climat biodivers entrench poverty. uncertain terms, face develop emergency.",0
1642,"must sure match stimulu climat goals, must develop goals. integr natur action cannot underestimated. reason, beliz capac chair allianc small island state advoc use 2030 agenda sustain develop togeth samoa pathway intern agre develop goal chart way forward challeng face. need reinvention. need implement renew commit resuscit collect develop goals. pandem thrown us afield sdg track, also need lend hand whose leg complet cut them.",0
1643,fourth challeng put unit nation give credenc principl leav one behind.,0
1644,small island develop state like beliz engag debt-fuel recoveri salvag chanc sustain develop qualifi concessionari finance. denial access financ amount breach intern commit support special case sids.,0
1645,"per capita incom longer defin whether sid access finance. high time final replac pervers income-bas criteria robust vulner base criteria look level poverty, indebtedness, exposur natur disast extern shocks. aosi call upon secretary-gener final deliv multi-dimension vulner index twenty-f year overdue.",0
1646,"state forum financ develop era covid-19 beyond, tradit develop tool proven ineffect covid-19 continu prove point. new develop tool need creat exist one adapted. inclus tailor measur sid focu debt relief, cancel restructur urgent needed.",0
1647,countri chair aosi therefor call sid compact access financ specif polici option would address:,0
1648,"~ liquidity, solvenc enabl green, resili recoveri sid ~ effici access financ well increas mobil expand provis concessionari grant base financ",0
1649,~ innov sourc financ facilit privat sector engag sid ,0
1650,~ increas access climat financ address immin need sid adapt address loss damag result irrevers impact climat chang,0
1651,"sid compact small island develop states, matter fall anachronist develop chain. barrier result exclus must eliminated. connect beliz add voic overwhelm call respect demand complet reject unilater coerciv measur impos sister island, cuba. despit cuba’ hardships, histor humanitarian commit etho servic solidar demonstr deploy medic personnel henri reev brigad mani countries, includ belize, assist effort fight covid-19 pandemic.",0
1652,"stand convict sovereign equals, peopl without discrimination, without exception, must benefit promis charter, right therein includ right self-determination.",0
1653,right self determin also applic peopl republ china  taiwan  continu exclus un institut contrari goal organisation. beliz call full particip taiwan un system. manifest possess capac exemplifi success effect approach covid-19 outreach alli countries.,0
1654,"beliz would also wish reiter solidar palestinian people, continu suffer illeg occup  fulli support aspir independ state, within 1967 borders, attend rights. urg israel continu work toward realis dream two state solution.",0
1655,bring final fifth challeng — reform.,0
1656,"sinc reckon millennium develop goals, one narr clear unchanged. progress, progress uneven. expect differ come sustain develop goal continu without purpos reform institut level multilater play field.",0
1657,"2008 financi crisi emerg trend respons covid 19 crisi portend, contemporari multilater institut includ global financi institut embodi system bia power. result forg global polici succumb pressur power politics, margin alreadi vulner groups.",0
1658,"disappointingli so, member aosi seen time tirelessli advoc collect ambiti climat action urgenc show increment progress.",0
1659,"led mani small island develop state ponder whether inde seat gener assembl celebr un’ centenary. presid kabua marshal island recent stated: “in face planet’ existenti challenge, unit nation member must contempl futur inact bring — one rank nobl institut may diminished.”",0
1660,system chang needed. multilater system institut must reform inclus advanc vision share respons share prosperity. voic margin must centralized. polici exclus exception bane multilater must replac polici inclusion.,0
1661,beliz continu pursu peac settlement guatemala claim countri particip fulli legal process intern court justice.,0
1662,2020 humanity’ defin moment.,0
1663,wit rampant injustic peopl even greatest nation amongst us continu suffer.,0
1664,come term fallaci institut winner take policies.,0
1665,doom gloom.,0
1666,"learn sacrific frontlin workers, heroes, end matter compassion, selfless task look one another.",0
1667,multilater frontlin confid aris dark moment stronger resili nation unite.thank much. pleasur honour share assembl hall you.,0
1668,time latin america seen clearli must choos two road lie it.,0
1669,two road lead — mani intellectu region assert — either toward left right  statism neo-liber  social capitalism.,0
1670,"two roads, one must choose, simpler. one road freedom road oppression.",0
1671,"words, face dilemma aris choic democraci dictatorship. short, face dilemma modernity.",0
1672,"creat state oppress guarante freedom? ladi gentlemen, time choose.",0
1673,"let us admit that, general, latin america overcom threat authoritarianism.",0
1674,let us conced import peopl latin american polit remain thrall authoritarian temptation.,0
1675,"and, consequently, let us accept mani societi risk surrend new form authoritarian oppression.",0
1676,new form authoritarian threaten sever nations?,0
1677,simpli pursuit caudillismo authoritarian populism.,0
1678,"encourag appropri and, necessary, kidnap public life caudillo caste.",0
1679,"matter parties, arm forces, union ideologies. sum, noth organ institut conceiv common good.",0
1680,individu pursuit power.,0
1681,"pursuit aspir see caudillo cast gain complet control polit sphere, culture, economi ultim freedom people.",0
1682,"found idea privilege. and, reason, run contrari idea rights.",0
1683,system few. system castes. system polit elites. system polit clan.,0
1684,"short, latin america road offer caudillismo authoritarian populism. also anoth path, differ oppos caudillismo authoritarian populism, respect peopl base democracy. effect, live populist era, latin america option build polit coexistence, base republican tradit — tradit freedom.",0
1685,road build bolivia. road lead toward return power people. road lead toward valid rule law.,0
1686,road lead toward overcom decad populist authoritarian caudillismo. road lead toward restor freedom citizens.,0
1687,precis order build road freedom support fair transpar elect 18 october.,0
1688,support despit fact propon caudillisto popul attempt stop sabotag brutal violent action week ago.,0
1689,"action includ block highway oxygen intend patient fallen ill covid-19 would get by. extraordinarili inhuman cruel way sow chao terror. action led death damage, eye law clearli seen crime humanity.",0
1690,"bolivian people, however, courag determinedli stop organ systemat attempt overthrow democraci reinstal dictatorship bolivia. peopl decid turn page leav behind populist dictatorship.",0
1691,"peopl longer want see govern build palac museum dedic caudillo. peopl want democracy, health care, employment, educ opportunities.",0
1692,decis current govern invest 10 per cent nation budget health care import step bolivia.,0
1693,also effort made health care import achiev three month achiev decad country. involv thousand health-car job initi equip hospit treat free charg thousand citizen contract coronaviru disease.,0
1694,"similarly, keep purpos establish republ — govern people, govern law govern devot polit freedom — establish bolivia support system people, unpreced history.",0
1695,pandem remind us enorm import help one another.,0
1696,"remind us christian valu care one another. remind us ethic mutual help path lead toward healthi coexist among peopl consid brother sisters, free equal.",0
1697,"support assist system establish base provid cash voucher popul — directli bolivian families, special emphasi peopl famili need.",0
1698,"well then, view two road freedom oppression, took liberti expound upon, pleasur say assembl bolivia chosen road freedom.",0
1699,would remiss conclud statement without condemn world systemat abus assault kirchnerist govern carri argentina institut republican valu bolivia.,0
1700,"noth nobl argentin people. moreover, nation esteem love like brother. noth peronism, valu polit tradit — nation popular tradit — drive forc behind enorm achiev social modern argentina.",0
1701,"tradit familiar bolivia 1952 revolution, exemplifi nation popular tradition, set stage extraordinari progress regard equal social justice.",0
1702,"harbour bitter toward governments, govern havana, agre ideologically. maintain due respect courtesi character relat two sovereign state two brotherli peoples, share common history.",0
1703,"case argentin govern different. involv behaviour describ earlier spoke populist castes, hesit use frankli abus method carri plans, obtain power take stand run contrari promot freedom.",0
1704,argentin government’ author make interfer key foreign polici toward bolivia? author protect violent conspiraci evo moral bolivian democraci argentin soil?,0
1705,"even worse, author argentin govern offer impun evo moral case seriou nation intern investig way former dictator, human right violations, sexual violat girl underag women, complic polit murder?",0
1706,kirchnerist popul know bolivian nation privat properti caste. sovereign respect people.,0
1707,bolivia respected. bolivian democraci respected. bolivian peopl respect themselves.,0
1708,"fail mention maritim issu speech. call intern commun new time resolv negoti fratern understand critic pend problem states, bolivia’ lack sovereign access pacif ocean.",0
1709,"bolivia chosen freedom. chosen republic. matter enemi are, import thing democracy, freedom, institut republican valu come stay bolivia.",0
1710,"invit world look elector process, which, unlik promot evo moral last year, clean free fraud. invit world look system aid, bond solidarity, launch bolivia histor stage assist need most.",0
1711,"invit world visit us, peopl that, despit mani political, social, econom health difficulties, look forward courage, freedom joy.",0
1712,"thank much. god bless you.mr. presid unit nation gener assembly, volkan bozkir,",0
1713,"mr. secretary-gener unit nations, antonio guterres, pleas greet mother tongue, head state, govern delegation,",0
1714,"honor open assembl togeth repres sovereign nations, point time world need truth overcom challenges.",0
1715,"covid-19 becom center attent cours year and, first all, wish express sorrow everi life lost.",0
1716,"beginning, country, warn two problem solve, viru joblessness, issu address simultan sens responsibility.",0
1717,"determin court rule brazil, measur involv social distanc restrict movement deleg 27 governor federation. president, turn, assign respons send resourc nationwide.",0
1718,"case much world, segment brazilian media also politic viru spread panic among population. motto “stay home” “we deal economi later on”, almost brought social chao country.",0
1719,administr bold step put place sever econom measur prevent greater evil.,0
1720,"emerg relief grant instal ad approxim $1,000 65 million people, largest assist program poorest brazil perhap one largest world.",0
1721,$100 billion alloc cover health relat action help small micro enterpris  measur also taken offset loss revenu collect state local governments.,0
1722,"200,000 indigen famili assist foodstuff covid prevent efforts.",0
1723,"close contact healthcar professionals, encourag earli treatment disease.",0
1724,"$400 million dedic research, develop product oxford vaccin brazil. brazil, hospit lack mean cater covid patients.",0
1725,"pandem teach us major lesson, cannot possibl depend nation product essenti input mean survival. hydroxychloroquin input product alon 500 per cent price increas onset pandemic.",0
1726,"brazil thu open develop state-of-the-art technolog innov efforts, 4.0 industry, artifici intelligence, nanotechnolog 5g technology, partner respect sovereignti cherish freedom data protection.",0
1727,"brazil, despit world crisis, agricultur product never stopped. farmer work harder ever, produc food feed 1 billion people.",0
1728,"brazil inde help continu feed world. truck drivers, maritime, port aviat worker kept entir logist chain fulli activ ensur distribut domest export markets.",0
1729,"agribusi remain vibrant thrive and, all, respect best environment legisl planet.",0
1730,"even so, victim brutal disinform campaign amazon brazilian wetlands.",0
1731,brazilian amazon known immens rich. explain support given intern institut disinform campaign anchor shadi interest coupl exploit unpatriot brazilian associ purpos undermin govern brazil itself.,0
1732,leader come conserv tropic rainforests. world’ cleanest diversifi energi mix.,0
1733,"even one world’ ten largest economies, account 3 per cent carbon emiss worldwide.",0
1734,"provid food secur one sixth world’ population, even preserv 66 per cent nativ veget use 27 per cent territori anim husbandri agriculture. figur countri has.",0
1735,brazil stand world’ largest produc foodstuffs. reason strong interest spread disinform environment.,0
1736,"open world offer best, i.e., agricultur products. never export much. world increasingli reli brazil feed itself.",0
1737,"tropic rainforest allow fire spread within it. fire outbreak tend occur virtual places, eastern surround forest, brazilian indigen ancestri burn farmland search livelihood alreadi clear areas.",0
1738,"crimin fire outbreak fought stringenc determination. stand zero toler polici toward environment crime. togeth congress, sought land regular view identifi perpetr crimin acts.",0
1739,"may call mind amazon region larger whole western europe. hence, difficulti fight fire outbreaks, also illeg log biopiracy. response, current expand enhanc use technolog improv inter-ag operations, includ engag arm forces.",0
1741,"concern environ goe beyond forests. brazil’ nation marin debri program, one first initi kind, design strategi coastline, span 8,500 km.",0
1742,"accordingly, brazil made everi effort cop25 madrid establish, provis pari agreement, effect intern carbon market. unfortunately, however, forc protection prevailed.",0
1744,brazil deem import respect freedom navig establish unit nation convent law sea.,0
1745,"accordingly, environment protect rule must respect crimin act investig time fashion, ensur crimin offens perpetr brazil affect countries.",0
1746,"brazil stand environment preserv front, also humanitarian human right agenda, area brazil becom intern benchmark refer given commit dedic support venezuelan refuge reach brazil border state roraima.",0
1748,"4,000 brazilian member militari taken part operation, consist humanitarian logist task forc view welcoming, shelter intern newli arriv famili border.",0
1749,"found member unit nations, brazil commit basic principl un charter: peac intern security, cooper among nations, respect human right fundament freedoms. organ reach 75th anniversary, opportun renew commit loyalti ideals.",0
1750,peac cannot possibl dissoci security. cooper among peopl cannot possibl dissoci freedom.,0
1751,"brazil enshrin principl peace, cooper preval human right constitution, tradit contribut translat reality.",0
1752,"brazil taken part 50 peacekeep oper relat mission has, such, contribut 55,000 member military, polic offic civilians, remark involv suez canal, angola, east timor, haiti, lebanon congo.",0
1753,two brazilian femal member militari acknowledg unit nation work sexual violenc part un mission central african republic.,0
1754,remain commit complet trade agreement sign mercosur european union well european free trade association. agreement contain import provis reinforc commit environment protection.,0
1755,"administration, brazil final put behind protectionist tradit adopt trade liber key tool growth transformation.",0
1756,"reaffirm commit reform world trade organization, must provid us relev disciplin line new intern realities.",0
1757,"also approach offici process brazil’ access oecd. end, alreadi put place world’ highest standard areas, includ financi regulation, digit secur environment protection.",0
1758,"first year office, success carri pension reform and, recently, submit two new reform bill congress, includ tax system administr reform state apparatus.",0
1759,"new regulatori framework key sectors, sanit natur gas, also put place. attract investments, provid econom stimulu creat job income.",0
1760,"2019, brazil world’ fourth largest destin foreign direct invest and, first half 2020, despit pandemic, seen increas inflow invest compar period last year. clear-cut evid world’ confid government. coordin south atlant partners, brazil work reinvigor south atlant peac cooper zone.",0
1761,brazil concern repudi terror part world.,0
1762,"latin america, continu strive preserv promot democraci cornerston econom progress desire.",0
1763,liberti humankind’ greatest asset.,0
1764,call upon entir intern commun protect religi freedom fight christophobia. also wish reaffirm solidar support peopl lebanon wake recent hardship endured.,0
1765,believ time right us open new optimist horizon futur middl east. peac agreement israel unit arab emir israel bahrain — three friend brazil govern greatli strengthen relat — excel news.,0
1766,"brazil also welcom plan peac prosper launch presid donald trump, featur promis vision resum path toward much- desir solut israeli-palestinian conflict seven decad efforts.",0
1767,"brazil’ new polici simultan pursu closer relat israel arab countri much line initiatives, final shine light hope region.",0
1768,"brazil christian conserv country, famili foundation.",0
1769,may god bless us all.,0
1770,"thank much.your excellency, mr. volkan bozkir, congratul turkey’ elect presid histor 75th session unit nation gener assembly. pledg barbados’ full support presidency. confid work gener assembl facilitated, mr. president, steadfast dedic compet leadership.",0
1771,"also wish express appreci predecessor, h.e. mr. tijjani muhammad-band nigeria, excel stewardship 74th session, wise guidanc adapt secretariat member state world virtual diplomaci advanc organization’ work midst covid-19 pandemic.",0
1772,"critic junctur history, mr. president, unit nation celebr 75th anniversary, world consum mani complex challenges. challeng aris world crisis, world global leadership.",0
1773,world appear lost moral compass.,0
1774,"globally, wit increas focu system racial injustices, econom social inequities, transnat crime, terrorism, human trafficking, increas human displacement, rise autocracies, violenc women climat crisis, name few.",0
1775,"geopolit tension increas countries, display alarm prefer unilater action, domin marginalis others. multilateralism, one philosoph underpin organis found 1945, seriou threat.",0
1777,"notwithstanding, barbado continu hold highest regard fundament precept intern commun collect action.",0
1778,imbal spoke earlier mr. presid also evid look state treat respect debt management.,0
1780,"small island develop states, mani caribbean pacific, labour oner debt burdens. african brother share similar fate. sadly, mani us, remain post-independ legacy.",0
1781,"barbado join unit nations, intent craftsmen fate plan trajectori post-coloni development. instead, find ensnar fals per capita-bas construct so-cal “middl incom countries”. assess bear littl resembl everyday existence. assess prohibit access concession loan financ adequ amounts, therebi stymi development.",0
1782,time debt forgiveness? time creation innov econom instrument revers widen gap inequality?,0
1785,"mr, president, noth starkli exemplifi imbal power like climat change. sever weather event occur across globe make climat mitig adapt effort even urgent. small island develop states, struggl stay afloat liter figuratively. think happen maldives.",0
1786,"barbado lost 60 per cent coral reef along rich abund divers speci reef ecosystem support. response, govern launch ambiti programm call roof reef save remain reef hope use modern excit new technolog creation new marin protect area rehabilit damag reefs.",0
1788,"barbados, part, postpon climat ambition. deterred! barbado fossil-fuel free 2030.",0
1789,"unit nation must take greater step strengthen revit climat agenda. challeng sustain develop creat resili climat chang assum even greater import deliber negotiations. un will, necessity, thread needl care issues, existenti natur countries.",0
1790,"take opportun express barbados’ appreci host cop- 26, unit kingdom, doubl contribut green climat fund £1.44 billion. view need adequ climat financ midst covid-19 pandem cannot overstated.",0
1791,"mr. president, yet anoth realiti confront us world brink devastation, time hand pervas new enemy, covid-19 pandemic.",0
1792,novel coronaviru strip us bare!,0
1794,"why, mr. president, barbado unequivoc support secretary- general’ call recent issu polici brief debt covid-19 intern financi institutions, multilater develop bank un provid debt relief. equally, support call eclac use vulner index issu debt address access capit determined.",0
1795,also eagerli look forward result upcom high-level event financ sustain develop covid-19 era beyond member state present address area rang illicit financi flow sustain recoveri crush debt burden face small island develop states.,0
1796,"resolut view debt relief support measures, addit financing, cannot bound conditionality.",0
1797,"barbado also support un’ econom commiss africa call creation special purpos lend vehicle, liquid sustain facility, support african, american caribbean countri advanc sustain develop initi and, immediately, facilit access liquidity, lend investment. term current covid-19 crisis, facil could significantli lower borrow costs, support financi sustainability, help countri access market need bridg financ liabil management.",0
1799,"barbado caribbean commun owe great debt gratitud director gener dr. tedro ghebreyesu world health organ support solidar ensur access stock test equip need combat covid-19. barbado also grate assist receiv mani countries, allies, partner agenc around world enabl us manag control spread virus.",0
1800,"unit nation must continu play key role global respons pandem help member recoveri assist build back better greener — better economies, better societies, better condit uplift poor marginalized,",0
1801,"permit me, mr. president, mention issu key import barbados.",0
1802,"wide recognis chronic non-communic diseas global problem constitut largest caus morbid mortal world. therefor call unit inter-ag task forc prevent control ncds, world health organisation, develop health strategi aim treat ncd part comprehens develop plan. take opportun point nexu ncd predispos exacerb factor covid-19. linkag make manag ncd critical.",0
1803,"mr. president, barbado call end econom trade embargo impos cuba, sister caribbean nation. deep bond friendship famili link two countries, wish place record barbados’ deep gratitud govern peopl cuba invalu assist render provis much-need healthcar worker help us respond covid-19.",0
1804,"respect venezuela, barbado continu call sustainable, legitim peac stabil import region partner. regard, look forward hold inclus elections.",0
1805,"pleas advise, mr. president, april 25th 30th 2021, barbado first small island develop state host unctad quadrenni meeting. eagerli await opportun welcom world shores.",0
1806,"unctad 15 theme inequ vulner prosper facilit discuss wide rang issues, includ impact covid-19 trade development, also abil attain sdg agenda 2030. also focu futur multilater trade system, measur vulnerability, manag debt, structur transform develop countries.",0
1807,"mr. president, let emphas barbado clear convict seventy-f year unit nation remain pre-emin organis respond global challeng us, support intern commun task rebuild societi economi inclus sustain manner.",0
1808,"however, organ must becom nimbl focu people, deliveri less bureaucracy. barbado fulli support secretary- gener guterr repeat call new global deal. new global deal must make unit nation relev found members, also countri like barbado join organis well after.",0
1809,"mr. president, time leader foster uniti solidarity. time us display global moral leadership promot intern cooper collect action.",0
1810,oblig you.mr. presid,0
1811,mr. secretari gener,0
1812,excel,0
1813,"would like present warm greet majesti king, majesti queen peopl bhutan, land gross nation happiness.",0
1814,"begin with, express solidar intern commun cope covid-19. offer prayer live lost pandem wish strength love ones.",0
1815,"mr. president, would like congratul elect presid 75th session gener assembly. assur delegation’ full support discharg import responsibilities. also commend predecessor’ exemplari leadership steer 74th session gener assembly.",0
1816,covid-19 bhutan’ uniqu stori,0
1817,"like never before, least lifetime, wit pandem heavi bear live livelihoods.",0
1818,"but, comfort unga happen around time. provid us platform share learn extraordinari times. know nation repres alway readi lend ear matter global concern.",0
1819,"tackl covid-19 singl global community. came far share knowledge, information, experi evid disease. thank support. bhutan learn lot exercise.",0
1820,"today, seek attent share covid-19 stori small himalayan kingdom. stori revolv around compassionate, wise astut 21st centuri king. king view divin rever yet learn everi modern detail.",0
1821,majesti king alway symbol held bhutan togeth purpos pursuits. alway royal prioriti protect peopl bhutan times.,0
1822,"pandemic, king spearhead battl guard countri virus, make sure bhutanese, home abroad, safe spirit uplifted.",0
1823,"then, majesti queen, passion complement majesty’ efforts.",0
1824,"direct supervis king, meticul surveil system place. includ close monitor intern entri point time institut 21 day quarantine, mandatori everyon enter bhutan fulli sponsor government. reliabl free test facil also set across country.",0
1825,"profession health minist lead team execut everi detail royal guidance. ensur without compromis routin health servic like vaccination, mch ncd packages. share much sens achiev forum. cannot help thank frontlin workers.",0
1826,"reciproc royal initiatives, bhutanes gladli embrac new practic wear face masks, maintain physic distance, hand wash avoid unnecessari crowd complement effort government. grate bhutanes peopl support.",0
1828,"occasions, majesti express appreci peopl hard work solidarity. turn, peopl heart fill gratitud devot king. uncondit uniti majesty’ leadership distinct win factor fight covid-19.",0
1829,covid-19 gnh,0
1830,"anyth thrive, need fertil ground. bhutan, display innat qualiti harmony, ambienc gross nation happiness. build around intrins valu interdependence, human compassion.",0
1831,"key compon gnh, visionari monarch emphasis protect preserv environment. constitut mandat ensur 60 percent forest cover time maintain ‘inter-gener equity’ natur resources.",0
1832,"today, world deal issu climat change, grate wise decis kept bhutan carbon negative.",0
1833,"similarly, constitut mandat free healthcar educ bhutanese. monarch alway insist strengthen social sector say invest expenditure.",0
1834,"despit resourc constrain country, access sector issu bhutanes people. exist public healthcar system need minimum adjust cope pandemic.",0
1835,"person feel pandem brought essenc gnh, seek wellb people, oneself everyon around us. disease, highli contagious, requir us act responsibly, action don’t compromis safeti vulnerable.",0
1836,"understand pathophysiolog covid-19, medic person, convinc effect vaccin combin profession design well implement physic distanc  extrem sens call lockdown , easili access reliabl test best approach.",0
1837,"lockdown templat elabor three phase add three weeks, follow 10 day gradual unlock phases. bhutan experienc first lockdown last month. break chain transmission, peopl cooper stay home through, allow front-lin job day out.  covid-19 social, econom intervent ",0
1838,"even covid-19 declar pandemic, majesti express concern bhutan spare outbreak. remind us strategic, health crisi could easili lead econom problem subsequ social crisis.",0
1839,"why, intervent look livelihood peopl , design within magnanim king. convent fiscal monetari measur attend affect entiti individuals. special team form look inform formal sectors.",0
1840,"however, majesty’ biggest concern could fall crack within system, happen particularli time crisis. thus, king’ relief fund ensur one left behind.",0
1841,"royal intervent goe extent take care interest payment loan citizen year. special packag design elderli peopl co-morbid medic conditions. besid social supports, essenti deliv doorsteps. uniqu featur design particularli protect vulner group.",0
1842,"majesti alway command lose even singl person disease. hopefully, interventions, abl live king’ expectations.",0
1843,75th anniversari un,0
1844,"know un come long way achiev major milestones. un celebr 25th anniversary, theme peace, justic progress. despit challenges, seen much improv areas.",0
1845,"twenty-f year later, 50th anniversary, commit theme poverti eradication. pandemic, well track.",0
1846,"theme 75th anniversari “multilateralism” cannot relevant. like climat change, covid-19 also know borders, similarli affect develop countri disproportionately.",0
1847,"know come next. also know sars- cov-3 hit us. sense, interconnected? second option multilateralism? question must keep ask frequent peac coexist among natur around us best vaccin human thrive planet.",0
1848,"small, intric world, fight highli infecti disease, big blunder help develop world access critic resourc includ vaccin actual becom available.",0
1849,"emphas global messag one safe us safe. true highli contagi disease, never safe everyon els safe.",0
1850,2030 agenda sustain develop goal  sdg ,0
1851,"let touch bit sdgs, univers goal sustain future.",0
1853,"goal set pandemic. plan commiss close studi impact covid-19 development plans. even otherwise, trend around world back home offer evid enough fall short targets.",0
1854,"17 sdg interconnected, singl sector spare consequ pandemic. obviou one goal health, educ economy.",0
1855,"individu agenc even govern re-align realiti covid-19, shouldn’t revisit sdg too? feel time field special team work new framework sdgs, encapsul element help us walk path new normal prudence.",0
1856,ldc graduat,0
1858,"know million push back poverty, lost jobs. would gone back decades. bring development achiev back track easy. develop countries, almost irreversible.",0
1859,"therefore, would like request un reset global development path help us regain grip smooth transit ldc category.",0
1860,un reform peacekeep,0
1861,"mr. president, time relev multilater often questioned, bhutan’ faith organis remain unwav firm. challeng face global commun numer multifacet individu state tackl own. perspective, altern work together.",0
1862,"time, un must also evolv match chang realities. particular, exist structur composit un secur council reflect current realiti circumst world.",0
1863,"bhutan also long support aspir g4 serv perman member expand secur council, course, africa also appropri represented.",0
1864,"peac country, enjoy benefit un membership almost five decades. join fratern troop police-contribut countri year 2014. sinc then, engag peacekeep oper gradual increased. stand readi deploy times.  conclus ",0
1865,"excellencies, ladi gentlemen, health educ prioriti government, may remind last year share all, gratifi news make teacher highest paid civil servant country.",0
1866,"histor initiatives, govern excit redefin educ system school enrol convent teaching. go engag children learn process meaningful, built around relev skill innovation.",0
1867,disappoint opt onlin distant learn due circumstances. rob young mind opportun play eat togeth peer teacher campus.,0
1869,covid-19 reveal stark fact invest social sector far lacking. one sure sars-cov-3 might trigger anoth pandemic.,0
1870,"therefore, must redesign development path doubl invest social sectors. go forward, relevantli educ healthi global citizen heart new normal.",0
1871,"convinc spend health educ invest expenditure, live commit would differ ball game hereafter.",0
1874,"medic practitioner, would wish fulfil health system improv much life expect touch 100 year un turn centuri 2045.",0
1875,"finally, wish 75th session unga everi success, send prayer good health happi everi live planet.",0
1876,"thank tashi deleklmr. president,",0
1877,"distinguish ladi gentlemen,",0
1878,"honour address 75th unit nation gener assembl first time sinc renew mandat presid republ botswana gener elections, held 23 octob 2019.",0
1879,"assembl uniqu mani ways. mark 75th anniversari unit nations, virtual, held backdrop greatest challeng time, covid-19 pandemic.",0
1880,"allow therefore, extend heartfelt condol sympathi famili friends, throughout world, affect pandemic. also pay special tribut frontlin battle.",0
1881,"confid that, like challeng before, will, togeth put spirit fight emerg wiser, stronger resili prepared deal similar pandemics.",0
1882,"join deleg spoken congratul assumpt presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. welcom prioriti presented, pledg delegation’ full support execut mandate.",0
1883,"let also take opportun extend profound gratitud predecessor, excel professor tijjani muhammad-bande, stewardship gener assembl 74th session.",0
1884,"botswana endors theme gener assembl session: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action.”",0
1886,"now, ever before, multilater action need effect respond urgent global public health crisi kind seen sinc spanish flu 1918.",0
1887,"agree, collect cooper requir repair nations’ devast economi restor livelihood societies.",0
1888,"foremost multilater institution, unit nation notic specialis agenc  world health organis  , better suit mobilis action relat immedi long-term respons covid 19 pandemic.",0
1889,"have, without doubt, seen organis move swiftli support nation respons effort vulner part world. notic un “solidar flights” deliv life-sav medic suppli neediest around world.",0
1890,"deleg welcom initi urgent respons measur undertaken un system, especi support rendered, un countri teams, global crisis.",0
1891,"particularli appreci leadership provid un secretary- gener unpreced time, particularli call global ceasefire, well afford covid-19 vaccin access “everi person, everywhere.”",0
1892,"reflect effect leverag multilater intern cooper better tackl challeng expos covid-19, incumb upon us also examin way strengthen un’ respons capacities.",0
1893,"so, also seiz opportun re-doubl ambit toward attain 2030 agenda  futur want. galvan momentum acceler sdg implement build secretari general’ wise call “decad action”.",0
1894,2030 agenda sustain develop,0
1895,"2030 agenda sustain development, sustain develop goal  sdg , constitut firm blueprint continu guid us global nation plans.",0
1896,botswana remain commit acceler effort toward attain sdg remain ‘decad action.’,0
1897,"realiz ambition, govern resolut transform botswana’ economi one larg reli extract industry, vulner globe shocks, knowledge-bas economy.",0
1899,"alluded, botswana, like mani countries, pandem far-reach impact live livelihoods.",0
1900,"alreadi vulner health sector, pandem join list challenges, include: child mortal  non communic diseas  hiv aids.",0
1901,"respond escal rate non-communic diseases, govern adopt multi-sector strategi prevent control ncd 2018-2023. strategi focus prevent measur enhanc qualiti life affected.",0
1902,"longstand battl hiv aid remain key prioriti government. context, happi inform botswana well track achiev joint unit nation programm hiv aid 90-90-90 unaids’ treatment target. far, 86 per cent peopl live hiv test know status. know, 83 per cent treatment 90 per cent viral suppressed.",0
1904,poverti erad,0
1906,"certainly, turn event demand urgent collect action erad poverti multi-dimension form everywhere, everyon affected, 2030.",0
1908,"deleg note unfortun global increas violenc women girl amid current health crisis. countri went lockdown peopl stay home, mani women girls, regrettably, becam easi target human predat subject gender base violenc  gbv . trend goe aspir goal 5: gender equal requir strenuou collect action.",0
1909,"gbv scourg alreadi concern botswana, increas alarmingli covid-19 crisis. address problem, govern intensifi implement nation strategi toward end gender base violence.",0
1910,botswana’ respons covid-19,0
1912,"response, govern avail econom relief packag support economi complement diseas contain measures.",0
1913,govern work “econom recoveri transform plan” intend support restor econom activ  facilit econom growth  acceler econom transform  build resili economy.,0
1914,"wherea economi disrupted, govern remain strongli commit pre-covid-19 sustain development-ori polici programs. econom recoveri transform plan thu add impetu implement initiatives.",0
1915,covid-19 multilater action,0
1916,"evid global problem, nation-st capac address covid-19 pandem effects, own. multilater respons without question, imperative. therefor echo call rule base inclus multilater open voic civil society, privat sector, academia key stakehold partners, shape global response.",0
1917,"botswana, ideal multilater respons one short long-term perspectives. short-term, need provid immedi relief safeti net vulner countri peoples. long term, post covid 19 recoveri multilater effort need provid comprehens support vulner countri populations.",0
1918,"deleg thu welcom idea recoveri focus build back better, faster even greener foster resilience. ever critic countri emerg conflict humanitarian crises, well still live unfortun condit foreign occupation.",0
1920,"context, call acceler effort implement vienna programm action, istanbul program action samoa pathway, design amelior challeng face group countries.",0
1921,"un’ multilater framework effect deal covid-19 pandem challenges, need unit nation nimble, agil fit purpose. indeed, sinc crisi started, seen secretariat demonstr organis qualiti response.",0
1923,climat chang,0
1924,"covid-19 devast pandemic, caught world unawar ill-prepared, climat chang phenomenon well awar of, mitig repercussions. long declar climat chang existenti threat, commit restrain rapid devastation. therefor re-doubl effort mitig neg effects.",0
1927,human right,0
1928,"botswana fulli subscrib three mutual reinforc pillar upon unit nation founded. hold firm promot protect human rights, democracy, rule law critic sustain development, peac security.",0
1929,also wish take occas reaffirm botswana’ support human right council extens work adopt outcom advanc global human right agenda.,0
1930,intern peac secur,0
1931,deleg applaud unit nation’ continu effort maintain global peac secur midst pandemic. welcom secretary- general’ appeal global ceasefir intend effort halt arm conflict allow world focu press bigger battl pandemic.,0
1932,also commend covid-19 global humanitarian respons plan design provid relief vulner group particularli conflict affect low incom countries. howev need partnership donor fund effect operationalis import plan.,0
1933,"turn peac stabil southern african region, note remain rel stable, emerg threat peac security, due increas act terror insurgency.",0
1935,"indisput establish terror know borders. remain seriou threat intern peac security. essentially, botswana remain deepli commit combat terror forms. thu continu take necessari step prevent combat scourge. includ strengthen anti-money launder counter terror financ regime. testimoni firm commit contribut toward bolster integr secur global financi system.",0
1937,"conclusion, wish reaffirm botswana’ commit to, belief multilater intern cooper indispens mechan foster peac security, promot human right sustain development.",0
1938,beyond shadow doubt unit nation remain relev 75 year ago. view complex multi-facet challeng confront human today.,0
1939,"inevitably, lesson covid-19 pandem mani others, becom key determin model real futur want unit nation need recov faster build peaceful, just, prosper world futur generation!",0
1940,"thank attention.presid unit nation gener assembly,",0
1941,"excel head state government,",0
1942,"although virtual event, honour address august assembly, behalf central african republic, occas seventy- fifth session unit nation gener assembly.",0
1943,"would like extend you, presid volkan bozkir, warm heartfelt congratul elect presid seventy-fifth session unit nation gener assembly.",0
1944,"elect well-deserv honour tribut paid contin and, particular, country, republ turkey.",0
1945,"believ perfect knowledg intern landscape, well outstand person attribut asset ensur success work.",0
1946,would also like acknowledg excel work result achiev professor tijjani muhammad-band seventy-fourth session. acknowledg effort convey recognit satisfaction.,0
1947,"rostrum, behalf peopl govern central african republic, would also like take opportun convey gratitud kind attent country, central african republic, receiv intern community, despit mani commit requests.",0
1948,"allow reiter gratitud confid mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, sustain commit global peac development, and, particular, constant multifacet support central african republic.",0
1949,"year’ assembl held amid special circumstances, humankind, whole, face regrett covid-19 pandemic, claim sever live throughout world.",0
1950,"pay tribut memori across world succumb pandemic, humankind combat daili collectively.",0
1951,"sinc start health crisis, central african republic, countri world, spared. assess socioeconom impact covid-19 indic country’ economi expect contract 0.8 per cent 1.2 per cent.",0
1952,therefor call entir intern commun make greater invest quest common measur solut erad health crisis.,0
1953,"light mani challeng face humankind relat security, environment, climat change, human mobility, human rights, terrorism, denuclearization, dismantl weapon mass destruct covid-19 pandemic, choic year’ theme — “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism” — reaffirm multilater alway remain instrument effect combat certain scourg mean minim certain antagon intern level.",0
1954,"occas seventy-fifth anniversary, essenti recal purpos principl govern great organ commit contain charter unit nations, name prevent remov threat peac  develop friendli relat among nation  fight inequ form discrimin  protect human rights.",0
1955,present session also opportun reflect common organ abl face new challeng affect world societies.,0
1956,"today, ever, must, spite differences, advoc intern cooper dialogue, join effort better futur humankind.",0
1957,"unit nation remains, continu be, multilater framework par excellence.",0
1958,"human endeavour perfect, therefor must bear mind weak identifi past 75 year find effect last solut them.",0
1959,"regard, central african republ wish add voic call state african union secur council reform.",0
1960,"matter look beyond narrow self-interest give prioriti common interests, avoid confrontation, favour joint strategi world, face unpreced chang upheavals.",0
1961,"also matter african represent organ share organization, particular secur council, central decisionmak body.",0
1962,"multilateralism, ensur secur stabl futur humankind, aspir peace, justic sustain develop all.",0
1963,"would also like take opportun share develop situat country. thank combin effort intern commun auspic african union, polit agreement peac reconcili central african republ sign central african govern 14 arm group 6 februari 2019.",0
1964,"sinc sign agreement, central african govern guarantor facilit agreement spare effort implement respect commit contain therein.",0
1965,"addition, govern made great deal progress area secur sector reform, facilit gradual redeploy defenc secur forc continu nation ddrr programme, alreadi launch prepar upcom elect schedul 2020-2021 period.",0
1967,"notwithstand consider progress made implement secur sector reform central african republic, mani challeng yet addressed, includ genuin commit arm group ddrr special joint secur unit  sustain support intern commun implement appr-rca  conduct oper mean oper engag  mobil resourc nation level develop partners.",0
1968,"order adher constitut deadline, nation elector author working, despit covid-19 pandemic, ensur elect held accord establish timeline.",0
1969,"date, censu dismember oper continu outsid countri immedi follow public elector roll — condit convoc elector first round elections.",0
1970,"govern work close organiz structur elector assist project  papec  2019-2022, built around key coordin mechanisms.",0
1971,"government, support minusca, continu make progress restor state author throughout nation territory, redeploy defenc secur forc state servic restor basic social services.",0
1972,central african armi steadili regain oper capac assur determin creat necessari condit reconstruct central african republ order restor confid joie de vivr among central africans.,0
1973,"end, reiter appeal central african peopl secur council fulli lift arm embargo, burden limit nation armi role republican army, order ensur true author state guarante integr nation territory.",0
1974,"conclud remarks, would like recal countri continu make effort implement nation plan recoveri peacebuild  rcpca , evalu regularli partners.",0
1975,"tangibl progress made, much remain done. end, commit preserv consolid gain made, improv weak continu make progress search peac econom recovery.",0
1976,"task hand immens and, say goes, “the bird take flight support air”.",0
1977,therefor hope intern commun remain mobil spirit intern solidar alongsid govern peopl central african republ order achiev country’ recovery.,0
1978,"unjust unlaw blockad go also secur establish polici found respect rule principl intern law unit nation charter, especially, principl respect sovereignti state reject intervent intern affairs.",0
1980,"occasion, reiter deep appreci sincer effort high sheikh sabah al-ahmad al-jab al-sabah, amir sisterli state kuwait, commend highli endeavor brotherli friendli countri bring crisi end.",0
1981,"intern consensu fair palestinian cause, despit consensus, intern commun stand helpless without take effect step vis-a-vi isra intransig persist occupi palestinian arab lands, besid impos stifl sieg gaza strip, continu polici expand settlements, impos fait accompli polici flagrant violat intern legitimaci resolut two-stat solut agre upon intern community.",0
1988,"nine year sinc syrian crisi wit unpreced humanitarian tragedies, whose seriou neg impact year year, still imposs reach end crisi due intransig syrian regim inact intern community, especially, secur council, assum duti maintain intern peac secur protect civilians.",0
1989,"syrian regim still obstruct even process draft new constitution, propos russia, which, unfortunately, left intern effort realiz sort peac solution. regim deal effort strategi keep pace intern commun follow ostens particip negoti gain time without intend make change.",0
1991,"humanitarian field, continu provid form support assist brotherli syrian peopl area displac refug till end crisis.",0
1993,"brotherli sudan, valu sign peac agreement juba, transit govern sudan host arm movements, express appreci state south sudan sponsor sign agreement, look forward rest faction join peac process. stress firm stanc state qatar besid brotherli sudanes peopl success pass transit period achiev aspir stabil development.",0
1996,"pain lebanon went aftermath explos port beirut. stood besid lebanes brother without conditions. habit impos polit condit show solidar disasters. end, incumb lebanes themselves, dictation, find agre upon way reform fulfil aspir entir gener state base citizenship rather affiliations. this, incidentally, aspir share younger gener across entir region.",0
1998,"context, qatar strengthen strateg partnership relev unit nation agencies. refer open program offic unit nation counter-terror offic doha next may implement behavior insight combat terror violent extremism.",0
2000,pleas host doha 23 27 januari 2022 fifth unit nation confer least develop countries. confid confer support march toward achiev develop next decad line 2030 agenda sustain development.,0
2001,"conclusion, affirm state qatar’ commit declar adopt gener assembl septemb 21st particip head state government, state qatar assum — partnership kingdom sweden — role facilit intern negoti adoption. continu work unit nation achiev goal address common challeng maintain interest peopl good humanity.",0
2002,"thank you, may god’ peace, merci bless upon you.mr. presid gener assembly,",0
2003,"celebr 75 year sinc establish unit nation adopt charter codif multilateralism. acknowledg un’ vital contribut develop societies, well galvan role foster dialogue, cooper share responsibility, basi univers valu principl enshrin un charter. principl relev today 75 year ago.",0
2006,"excellencies,",0
2007,"covid-19 pandem profound impact area lives. un’ comprehens respons crisi highlight interdepend economic, humanitarian, secur human right pillars. nonetheless, reveal imper need deal holist way.",0
2010,"romania tradit contribut world peac security. particip un peac oper around world, democrat republ congo south sudan, mali kosovo, continu play role.",0
2012,"support region intern effort combat terrorism, accord human right humanitarian law, well forthcom review unit nation global counter-terror strategy.",0
2013,"romania remain firmli commit maintain rules-bas intern order consolid global architectur arm control, non-prolifer disarmament, take account secur context. celebr 50th anniversari entri forc npt  treati non-prolifer nuclear weapon  2020, romania encourag parti take forward- look approach, everyth possibl achiev compromis strengthen integr npt pillars.",0
2014,"hunger, youth unemploy gender inequ rise, action need order fulli implement 2030 agenda sustain develop goals. line secretari general’ call, respons address challeng global locally. set adequ policies, budgets, institut regulatori frameworks. also need involv listen fellow citizens, order achiev better sustain futur all. romania, dedic strateg document launch 2018 — 2030 review nation strategi — guid action next 12 year order meet 17 sustain develop goals.",0
2017,"eu green deal token commit regard exampl good practice, we, european state institutions, cannot succeed ourselves. must part achiev just, clean, secur climate-sound future.",0
2018,"romania’ object 2050 creat framework economic, social environment polici interconnect design ensure: sustain development, high live standard qualiti environment.",0
2019,"futur want one human right promoted, protect fulfilled. must ensur inclus account har youth civil society’ engagement.",0
2020,"leav one behind principl also valid human rights, take account overwhelm major sdg anchor human right instruments.",0
2022,"gender equal central sustain develop goals. year mark 25th anniversari beij declar platform action. together, defin comprehens transform global agenda gender equal women’ empowerment. futur gener equal forum achiev tangibl result gender equality. must stand togeth women’ rights! gender equal women’ right essenti recov faster better pandemic.",0
2026,"futur want also futur solidarity, line 2030 agenda principl leav one behind. one main lesson learn past month crucial need effect innov multilater cooperation. also learn rules-bas intern order — multilater reli — must upheld strengthened, order effect address challenges.",0
2027,"now, ever, acknowledg health repres invest futur key sustain development. intensifi effort achiev sdg contribut larg mitig neg effect covid-19 crisis.",0
2028,"romania therefor becom part “the coronaviru global response” pledg initiative. time, re-ori sever project year toward respond health emergencies, particularli eastern neighbourhood sub-saharan africa. romania redirect half budget intern develop cooper respond covid-19. contribut consolid institut capac health systems, ensur food secur sustain water management, well counter fake news covid-19 context.",0
2029,"romania includ refuge nation public health coverag ensur access necessari medic facilities. person receiv refuge statu anoth form intern protect grant continu access nation territory. process continu even state emerg caus covid-19 outbreak, person includ prevent programm covid-19.",0
2031,"current capac presid commun democracies, romania activ promot role youth democrat processes. bucharest declaration, adopt 20th anniversari commun democraci host countri june year, clearli state",0
2032,“democraci best equip mobil ensur element,0
2033,"societi work together, adapt new circumstances, maxim inclus",0
2034,"joint efforts, includ full meaning particip youth",0
2035,decision-making”.,0
2036,"following, cod youth forum organ romania juli confirm democraci need work togeth deliv best results, youth involv essenti common futur welfar societies.",0
2038,"futur want must meet aspir peace, freedom justice, equal prosperity, good health clean environ — futur human rights, democraci rule law provid us adequ framework achiev aspirations.",0
2039,"take opportun mention romania celebr 65 year sinc join un. context, would like reaffirm commit univers valu organ resolv continu contribut achiev nobl objectives.",0
2040,congratul import respons assum assur romania’ full support cooper 75th session gener assembly.,0
2041,"thank attent !mr. president, mr. secretary-general, colleagues, ladi gentlemen,",0
2042,"year, intern commun celebr two, without exaggeration, histor anniversaries: 75th anniversari end second world war establish unit nations.",0
2043,"import two forev interlink event cannot overemphasized. 1945, nazism defeated, ideolog aggress hatr crushed, experi spirit alliance, well awar huge price paid peac common victory, help construct post-war world order. built ultim foundat un charter remain main sourc intern law day.",0
2044,"convinc anniversari make incumb upon us recal timeless principl inter-st commun enshrin un charter formul found father univers organ clearest unambigu terms. principl includ equal sovereign states, non-interfer domest affairs, right peopl determin future, non-us forc threat force, polit settlement disputes.",0
2045,"look back past decades, one say despit difficulti cold war period, major geopolit shift intricaci today’ global politics, un abli fulfil mission protect peace, promot sustain develop peopl contin provid assist mitig local crises.",0
2046,"enorm potenti expertis un relev serv solid basi move ahead. all, like intern organ region entity, un grow stiff, evolv accord dynam 21st centuri consist adapt realia modern world inde becom complicated, multipolar multidimensional.",0
2047,"current chang certainli effect princip un body, secur council, well debat concern approach reform. logic secur council inclus interest countries, well divers positions, base work principl broadest possibl consensu among state and, time, continu serv cornerston global governance, cannot achiev unless perman member secur council retain veto power.",0
2048,"right pertain five nuclear powers, victor second world war, remain indic actual militari polit balanc day. importantly, essenti uniqu instrument help prevent unilater action may result direct militari confront major states, provid opportun seek compromis least avoid solut would complet unaccept other act within framework intern law, rather vague, gray area arbitrari illegitimacy.",0
2049,"diplomat practic shows, instrument actual works, unlik infam pre-war leagu nation endless discussions, declar without mechan real action state peopl need right assist protection.",0
2050,"forget lesson histori short-sight extrem irresponsible, like politic attempt arbitrarili interpret causes, cours outcom second world war twist decis confer alli nuremberg tribun base specul instead facts.",0
2051,"vile offend memori fighter nazism. direct devast blow foundat post-war world order, particularli danger view global stabil face seriou challenges, arm control system break down, region conflict continu unabated, threat pose terrorism, organ crime drug traffick intensifying.",0
2053,"expert yet fulli assess scale social econom shock caus pandem long-term consequences. however, alreadi evid take really, realli long time restor global economy. furthermore, even proven anti-crisi measur alway work. need new innov solutions.",0
2055,"idea qualit integr growth, “integr integrations”, one behind russia’ initi form greater eurasian partnership involv asian european countri without exception. pure pragmat increasingli relevant.",0
2056,"besides, would like draw attent russia’ propos creat so-cal “green corridors” free trade war sanctions, primarili essenti goods, food, medicin person protect equip need fight pandemic.",0
2058,"inde acut global social problem, polit mission pave way trade, joint project fair competition, rather tie hand busi discourag busi initiative.",0
2061,"regard, matter relat cybersecur use advanc digit technolog also deserv seriou deliber within un. import hear appreci concern peopl protect rights, right privacy, properti security, new era.",0
2062,"must learn use new technolog benefit humankind, seek right balanc encourag develop artifici intellig justifi restrict limit it, work togeth toward consensu field regul would avert potenti threat term militari technolog security, well traditions, law, moral human communication.",0
2063,"would like point pandemic, doctors, volunt citizen variou countri show us exampl mutual assist support, solidar defi borders. mani countri also help selflessli open-heartedly. however, case show deficit human and, will, kind relat offici interst level.",0
2065,"healthcare, like economy, need remove, mani possible, obstacl partner relations. countri activ contribut global region counter-covid-19 efforts, provid assist affect state bilater within multilater formats.",0
2066,"so, first take account central coordin role world health organization, part un system. believ essenti qualit strengthen capability. work alreadi begun, russia genuin motiv engag it.",0
2068,"would like reiter complet open partner relat will cooperate. context, propos hold onlin high-level confer shortli countri interest cooper develop anti- coronaviru vaccines.",0
2069,"readi share experi continu cooper state intern entities, includ suppli russian vaccin prove reliable, safe, effective, countries. russia sure capac global pharmaceut industri need employ provid free access vaccin popul state forese future.",0
2070,"danger viru affect anyone. coronaviru struck staff unit nations, headquart region structur like everyon else. russia readi provid un necessari qualifi assist  particular, offer provid vaccine, free charge, voluntari vaccin staff un offices. receiv request un colleagu respect, respond those.",0
2072,"special multilater un conventions, treati protocol prove fulli relevant. call state compli good faith, particularli work achiev object pari agreement.",0
2073,"dear colleagues! would like underlin again, russia make everi effort contribut peac polit diplomat resolut region crise conflicts, well ensur strateg stability.",0
2075,"issu primari import must promptli dealt is, course, extens russia-u strateg arm reduct treaty, expir shortly, i.e. februari 2021. engag negoti us partner matter.",0
2076,"also expect mutual restraint would exercis regard deploy new missil systems. would like add earli last year, russia declar moratorium deploy ground-launch medium short-rang missil europ region long unit state america refrain actions. unfortunately, receiv reaction propos either us partner allies.",0
2078,"particular, russia put forward initi sign bind agreement lead space power would provid prohibit placement weapon outer space, threat use forc outer space objects.",0
2080,"current challeng environment, import countri show polit will, wisdom foresight. perman member un secur council — power that, 75 year now, bear particular respons intern peac security, preserv foundat intern law — take lead here.",0
2082,"would like reiter interrelated, interdepend world, amid whirlpool intern developments, need work togeth draw principl norm intern law enshrin un charter. way us carri paramount mission organ provid decent life present futur generations.",0
2083,wish peopl planet peac well-being.,0
2084,thank you.,0
2085,"•	excellency, volkan bozkir, presid gener assembl",0
2086,"•	excellency, antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nation",0
2087,"•	excellencies, head state govern",0
2088,•	distinguish deleg,0
2094,"mileston gender, climate, develop demonstr achiev multilater action, also remind us much remain done.",0
2095,"commend except work done world health organization, led dr tedro adhanom. continu work reinforc w.h.o. make effective.",0
2099,"global movement racial justic equal pass phenomenon. requir action build public trust equal digniti citizens, demonstr treatment histor marginalised, continu suffer mistreat disproportionately.",0
2101,"descend look back judg gener respond challenges, especi leaders.",0
2102,collect accomplish three gener 75 year build stronger intern order disintegr recrimin resentment? come togeth secur global progress foundat cooper mutual respect?,0
2103,choic ours. thank you.th kingdom’ statement un gener assembl 75th session,0
2104,"majesties, highnesses, excellencies, mr. presid gener assembly, mr. secretari gener",0
2105,"distinguish attendees,",0
2106,"may god’ peac upon you,",0
2108,"also would like extend thank predecessor dr. tijjani muhammad- bande, presid previou session great effort exerted. also would like note commend distinguish work undertaken secretari gener mr. antonio guterr improv perform un institut manner achiev object meet purpos charter.",0
2109,"today, speak birthplac islam  home revelation, qibla muslims. share messag reli teach nobl religion, arab culture, common human values, call coexistence, peace, moderation, solidar among nation peopl world confront extraordinari challeng humanity.",0
2111,"kingdom one largest donor field humanitarian development aid. kingdom provid support peopl world irrespect political, ethnic, religi affiliation. past three decades, kingdom provid $86 billion humanitarian aid benefit 81 countries.",0
2112,"country, ever sinc foundat organization, forefront among nation work achiev intern peac security. consist work mediat reach peac solut disputes, well seek prevent conflict support security, stability, development, prosperity.",0
2115,"region intern spheres, kingdom advoc polici reli respect intern law principles, continu work achiev security, stability, prosper region, support polit solut conflict combat extrem form manifestations.",0
2119,"kingdom hesit defend nation security, abandon fratern peopl yemen regain complet sovereignti independ iranian hegemony. kingdom continu provid humanitarian support peopl yemen, continu support effort un secretari general’ special envoy yemen accord gcc initiative, outcom comprehens yemeni nation dialogue, unsc resolut 2216.",0
2120,"terror extremist ideolog pose major threat entir world. together, made remark progress past year combat extremist organizations, includ substanti roll back isi stronghold iraq syria effort global coalition. similarly, forc coalit support legitimaci yemen abl deliv import strike al-qaeda isi yemen.",0
2122,"kingdom, due posit muslim world, bear special histor respons protect toler islam faith attempt terrorist organ extremist group pervert it. islam equat kill individu kill peopl undoubtedli innoc crime atroc commit name forc terror extremism.",0
2124,"peac middl east strateg option. duti spare effort work togeth toward achiev bright futur peace, stability, prosperity, coexist among region’ peopl prevail. kingdom support effort advanc peac process. kingdom introduc peac initi sinc 1981. 2002 arab peac initi provid basi comprehens solut arab-isra conflict ensur fratern palestinian peopl obtain legitim rights, forefront establish independ state east jerusalem capital. support effort current u.s. administr achiev peac middl east bring palestinian isra negoti tabl reach fair comprehens agreement.",0
2125,"follow concern develop libya, call libyan brother sit negoti tabl unit preserv territori integr safeti libya, condemn foreign intervent libya. also support peac solut syria maintain territori integr call departur militia mercenari it.",0
2127,"mr. president, distinguish attendees,",0
2129,may god’ peac upon you.,0
2130,"thank mr. president.in name god, merciful,",0
2131,"majesti excel head state government,",0
2132,"may peace, merci bless god almighti upon you.",0
2133,"pleasur address today, year sinc gloriou decemb revolution, young women men sudan paid price preciou blood. revolut repres sincer express peopl aspir freedom, peac justice.",0
2134,"great hope work session successful. also pleas extend sincer congratul you, mr. volkan bozkir, elect presid gener assembly, wish success. must also express appreci great effort made predecessor, mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, outgo presid gener assembly, tireless effort seventy-fourth session.",0
2135,"deliber current session take place critic time. world face strange, mysteri enemi spread rapidli ferociously, leav devast wake, surpass geograph boundari without distinct rich poor countries. left world choic choos solidar mean response.",0
2137,"connection, would like state support appreci world health organ commend role play combat pandem outset. also commend technic support provid affect countries. also wish thank countri organ support us area.",0
2141,"import preserv valu multilater intern cooper underpin charter unit nation 2030 agenda sustain development. essenti order reinforc three pillar unit nations: security, develop human rights.",0
2142,"moreover, global issu climat change, geopolit tension humanitarian crise variou form mean must reach understand respect valu interest people. call share interest action multilater diplomacy, especi time political, social econom landscap relat among countri impact technolog progress inform acceleration.",0
2144,"regard humanitarian situation, express thank appreci unit nation humanitarian agencies, intern organ donor commun support revolut govern effort address issu displac persons, refuge repatri citizen provid food health care.",0
2146,"countri work close unamid exit strategi 31 decemb line secur council resolut 2525  2020 . latest step taken transfer task implement phase one nation plan protect civilians, circul offici secur council document sinc 21 may. also submit first progress report implement 15 august. continu implement nation plan order fulli assum task relat protect civilian 31 december, sudan host unit nation integr transit assist mission sudan  unitam .",0
2149,"constitut declar given special attent human right issues, whole chapter devot freedom rights. implement declaration, transit govern taken number posit step address distort attach issu throughout period previou totalitarian rule. first among step repeal number law restrict freedom  promot role women societi  protect right  allow freedom opinion, express peac assembl  combat impunity. transit govern also eager strengthen cooper intern community. context, agreement sign open region offic high commission human right septemb 2019. offic oper sudan sinc january.",0
2150,"regard effort reintegr sudan intern system, take opportun express high appreci initi germany, particip number countries, establish group friend sudan. success format group regular meet repres momentum toward reintegr sudan intern system isol last 30 years. exemplifi success sudan partnership confer berlin 25 june, particip 50 countri region intern organizations.",0
2152,"also stress sudan, presid intergovernment author development, strive achiev goal consist strateg goal igad. decis sixteenth igad ordinari summit novemb 2019 agre sudan’ presid organ affirm sudan’ strong return region. sudan laid vision presid relat peace, security, region integration, empow women youth revit organization. igad held number summits, includ one support peac process sisterli republ south sudan anoth address coronaviru pandemic.",0
2155,"conclusion, want confirm determin complet construct projects, reform intern institut strengthen extern relat sudan becom activ member region. want particip intern commun creat futur want occupi right place order contribut strengthen role unit nations. day ago, celebr seventy-fifth anniversary. want organ need view achiev cooperation, plural collect work success approach meet challeng threaten peopl world.mr. presid gener assembly,",0
2156,"ladi gentlemen, head state govern head delegation,",0
2157,"start remarks, behalf excel mr. macki sall, presid senegales republ people, would like extend warm congratul republ turkey, decis elect ambassador volkan bozkir lead work 75th session gener assembl unit nations.",0
2158,senegal’ support cooper wish everi success august duti servic member states.,0
2159,"also thank predecessor, professor tijjani muhammad-bande, outstand work difficult context, mark unpreced health crisi covid-19.",0
2160,"secretary-general, mr. antonio guterres, reiter senegal’ support continu effort reform unit nation system, bedrock inclus multilateralism.",0
2161,"although plan mark seventy-fifth anniversari un grandios fashion, find virtual environment, physic separ one anoth pandemic.",0
2162,"paraphras presid macki sail, infinitesim small got better us. unpreced even organization’ 75-year existence!",0
2163,"accordingly, theme chosen, entitl “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”, could timely, call us take clearer look share challenges.",0
2164,"even progress report, commemor anniversari provid meaning opportun critic examin organization’ 75-year history, includ achievements, well limitations, hinder achiev current objectives.",0
2166,"secondly, given uncertainti situation, discuss need unit nations, whose mission universal, remain focus major prioriti three main pillar peac security, sustain develop — particular climat emerg — promot protect human rights.",0
2167,"lastly, go share lesson learn senegal’ experi develop country, particularli context pandem respons strategy.",0
2169,"time, pay tribut memori hundr thousand covid-19 victim wish million patient sick diseas speedi recovery.",0
2170,"let us commend actor taken collect threat, particular health-car personnel, express admir firm support.",0
2171,"intern organizations, particular world health organization, respons coordin global respons threat, reiter senegal’ support.",0
2172,"accordingly, deleg call effect implement resolut adopt consensu seventy-third world health assembly, particularli view ensur rapid, affordable, safe qualiti access essenti health-car servic technologies, diagnost tests, medicin vaccines.",0
2173,firmli believ potenti vaccin treatment develop fight covid-19 consid global public good made avail countries.,0
2176,"although initi sustain growth dynamics, africa, like rest world, suffer full impact far-reach crisis.",0
2178,"excel mr. macki sail call cancel public debt restructur privat debt, well develop countri honour commit offici develop assistance.",0
2179,"would like take opportun commend effort made member g-20, world bank intern monetari fund support debt servic suspens initiative.",0
2180,"africa truli requir debt moratorium, rather debt cancel order foster econom social resilience, well build effect health-car systems.",0
2182,"75-year existence, unit nation — quintessenti symbol multilater — made great stride promot intern peac security, mutual understand among peoples, sustain develop respect human dignity.",0
2183,"evidenc mani peac oper throughout world, decolon implement 2030 agenda, well support assist un provid peopl need world, regardless origin background.",0
2184,"undeniably, organ contribut greatli realiz share goal bring world free scourg war, poverti exclusion.",0
2185,"stand need today reinvigor multilater reform effect univers organization, collect answer existenti questions, one left behind.",0
2186,"together, face multipl challeng terrorism, violent extremism, arm conflict, financ development, illicit financi flows, migration, poverty, exclusion, public health climat change.",0
2187,"regard, legitim ask africa remain contin perman seat secur council, devot larg part agenda continent?",0
2188,"host ministeri meet african union committe ten head state government, entrust repres africa’ voic reform secur council, seneg reaffirm commit issu which, moral imperative, way reviv found spirit charter ideals.",0
2191,"state affairs, however, obscur africa, entrepreneurial, innovates, invents, succe admir deal covid-19 pandem face alarmist forecasts.",0
2193,presid macki sail recent recal,0
2194,"“for world economi run steam, build africa repres",0
2195,sourc opportun investments”.,0
2196,"therefore, decad action deliv sustain develop goals, launched, fresh opportun us work toward revit post-covid-19 recoveri full implement 2030 agenda.",0
2197,"furthermore, implement declar commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nations, seneg fulli endorses, must renew commit agenda un reform order restor multilater right place unit nation centre.",0
2200,"example, like sever countri sahel region, seneg recent record equival month’ amount rain one day, upend live thousand people.",0
2201,"want avoid apocalyps futur generations, altern implement unit nation framework convent climat chang pari agreement. particular, develop countri must honour financi commitments, includ green climat fund.",0
2202,"equal concern challeng concern loss biodiversity. excel mr. macki sail noted,",0
2203,“the loss biodivers global emerg concern us,0
2204, part ecosystem ”.,0
2206,"support financ partner donors, programm made possibl meet emerg materi health-car needs, assist household diaspora population, support privat sector, includ tax incentives, ensur adequ suppli fuel.",0
2209,"result efforts, seneg rank second global respons index regard respons pandemic.",0
2210,"regard, 2019-2023 adjust acceler prioriti action plan plan emerg seneg plan revis upward $4,098 $14,712 billion, contribut sum $26 billion total investments.",0
2211,"crucial issu climat chang priorit within framework, particularli implement green emerg seneg plan.",0
2212,"regard, invest programm dedic 50 billion cfa francs, approxim $90 million, sustain reforest nation territory, establish nation forest research institut senegales forest protect agenc order strengthen current polici area.",0
2213,"concern foreign policy, remain faith principl leadership head state, seneg continu advoc good neighbourliness, region integration, promot peac human rights, intern cooper solidarity.",0
2214,"accordingly, renew country’ continu commit definit return peac stabil mali.",0
2215,"entir motiv behind effort excel presid macki sail, particularli within framework ecowas, view support malian stakehold come togeth best interest mali benefit malian entir subregion.",0
2216,"seneg pursu effort within minusma — valuabl contribut illustr country’ commit peacekeeping, view promot peace, secur stabil throughout world.",0
2218,"regard, urg intern commun step effort realiz right palestinian peopl independ viabl state, east jerusalem capital, coexist peac secur state israel, live within secur intern recogn borders.",0
2219,"would remiss fail mention futur want continu depend lesson learned, particularli relat health crisis. despit resilience, pandem call question busi usual, forc us break past practices.",0
2220,"boat face vulnerabilities, seneg convinc altern work collect solidarity.",0
2222,"underpin new world order advoc presid macki sail. order base justice, rule law fair equit govern full cooperation, solidar mutual respect — say inclus multilateralism, quintessential^ embodi reform effect unit nations.",0
2223,"thank kind attention.mr president, excellencies, ladi gentlemen.",0
2225,"would like congratul excel volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session gener assembly. would also thank excel tijjani muhammad-bande, presid 74th session, steer un challeng period.",0
2232,import multilater,0
2233,"pandem chang singapore’ fundament belief necess multilateralism. small countri make half membership un. essenti system small sovereign state equal voic disput settl peacefully, accord intern law agre rules. singapor work cross-region group countri establish forum small state back 1992. forum small state alway champion un rules-bas multilater system. count forum small state continu speak stronger un greater multilateralism.",0
2235,"current system perfect. much done strengthen reform rules-bas multilater system. need fit purpose, abl adapt chang realiti today.",0
2236,overcom recov covid-19,0
2241,"ensur open trade system key rebuild efforts. countri complet self-sufficient. interest countri uphold strengthen suppli chain connectivity. fact, seek market diversifi sourc suppli build resilience. singapor issu joint ministeri statement affirm suppli chain connect australia, canada, chile, new zealand, brunei myanmar, un, spearhead joint statement open markets, flow essenti good suppli chain connect which, glad report, 175 co-sponsors.",0
2245,"nation level, need ensur digit inclusion, especi commun older persons, peopl disabl financi disadvantaged. respons help peopl upskil re-skil equip job future. also help busi leverag digit tool grow, becom efficient, competit find new customers.",0
2246,"intern level, governments, businesses, individu need abl transact transfer data secur across borders. thu critic collect develop trusted, open, inclus cyberspac underpin intern law norm respons state behaviour. singapor strongli support un secretary-general’ roadmap digit cooperation. also continu work un group government expert advanc respons state behaviour cyberspac context intern secur open-end work group develop field ict context intern security, oewg, short.",0
2248,"climat chang present clear present danger singapor indeed, small island nations. although impact global emiss small, especi vulnerable, singapor take climat action oblig seriously. submit enhanc 2030 nation determin contribut pari agreement long-term low-emiss develop strategi 2050 beyond un framework convent climat chang march 2020, even midst tackl current pandemic.",0
2249,post-covid multilater system,0
2250,"countri cannot hope go back way thing covid 19 came upon us, neither multilater system. must adapt must reinforc intern institut remain open, inclusive, transparent, fit purpose.",0
2251,"role un, particular, crucial. indispens univers platform cooperation, base principl equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit intern law. un must adapt reform order respond effect contemporari futur challeng remain relev next 75 years.",0
2255,"singapor commit work other keep wto relev well-functioning. instance, work 22 like-mind countri establish multi-parti interim appeal arbitr arrang keep wto’ arbitr mechan functioning.",0
2256,"expect world intellectu properti organisation’ role grow world move progress online, cyberspace, new valu created.",0
2258,current crisi brought sharp relief common humanity. must leav anyon behind alone.,0
2259,"thank much.mr. president,",0
2261,"let also use occas commend predecessor, excel tijjani muhammad-bande, excel leadership gener assembl past session. highli commend effort ensur work assembl progress spite restrict face unit nation secretariat member state missions. wish everi success futur endeavors.",0
2263,"never time collect action un member state greatli need right now, time world face global, deadli pandem covid-19.",0
2266,pleas inform assembl solomon island remain one 12 covid-19 free countri without report case. nine pacif small island develop state share covid-19 free status.,0
2267,"however, remain complacent. govern respond pandem undertak follow steps. firstly, covid-19 oversight committe compris relev govern agenc quickli establish coordin government’ respons pandemic. furthermore, resourc swiftli mobil address gap within healthcar system secur entri point borders. econom front govern creat stimulu packag cushion neg impact viru continu impos fragil economy.",0
2270,"far 11 repatri flight undertaken. 1000 peopl enter borders, 80 per cent repatri nation 20 per cent foreign nationals. schedul flight repatri nation abroad.",0
2272,"take time thank host countri transit countri goodwil understand accommod citizen wait repatriated. also wish express heartfelt thank develop partner including, australia, new zealand, japan, peopl republ china, unit arab emirates, asian develop bank, world bank, unit nation agenc particular, world health organization, region institut kind assist generosity, financi support time donat medic equip health sector. unwav support deepli appreci continu need continu effort combat spread virus.",0
2278,"larg ocean state area 1.5 million squar kilometres, conserv preserv ocean resourc remain prioriti solomon islands. live peopl economi countri remain deepli connect ocean. solomon island tuna industri gener around $60 million revenu annual basi economi provid employ 2,000 solomon islanders. sadly, illegal, unreport unregul fish within maritim jurisdict remain threat tuna resources. almost $150 million worth direct econom valu small island develop state includ solomon island lost result iuu pacific. call distant water fish nation reduc incid iuu waters.",0
2279,"matter pertain un convent law sea, govern remain commit negoti legal bind instrument conserv sustain use marin biolog divers area beyond nation jurisdiction. govern look forward agreement fair, comprehens provid capac build small island develop state solomon island fulli implement it. note challeng covid-19 pose abil state conclud negoti 2020, however, must lose momentum. must continu strive complet negoti earliest possibl date.",0
2280,"ensur sovereignti maritim zone remain import government. activ work toward complet delimit maritim zone one remain maritim boundari left conclude. regard, govern welcom work undertaken intern law commiss question sea level rise sovereignty. government’ posit nation maritim zone deposit unit nations, subject chang despit sea level rise. solomon island ocean state, country’ sovereign territori chang due effect climat chang sea level rise.",0
2281,"time world face unpreced challeng exacerb covid 19, import ever, world remain unit effort bring peac uniti among peopl regardless race, gender religion. post conflict countri peopl keep strive maintain uniti within diversity. reason govern proud contribut 12 polic offic unit nation african mission darfur, sudan. stand readi deploy offic un peacekeep duti un peacekeep mission especi critic times.",0
2283,"welcom committe develop policy’ intent factor, impact covid-19 sector next triennial review 2021. encourag work close us ensur next report paint true pictur solomon island develop path continu navig transit roadmap uncertain challeng times.",0
2286,"see increas number undernourish children nourish adults. addit this, report also highlight vulner economi extern shock natur disasters. coupl impact covid 19 continu affect solomon island forese future.",0
2287,"solomon island believ import agenda 2030, istanbul program action samoa pathway chart cours sustain development. factor nation develop strategi path forward sustain futur people. urg develop partner remain commit work us achiev aim sustain development.",0
2288,"solomon island recogn contribut frontlin health worker make fight covid-19. regard, allow offer deep thank cuba train medic students. eighti solomon island medic doctor graduat cuban medic school eight graduat year. note concern 59-year-old econom embargo impos cuba remain place reiter call lift embargo within spirit purpos unit nation charter.",0
2289,"finally, mr. president,",0
2292,"thank mr. president.mr. president,",0
2293,"excellencies, head state government,",0
2294,distinguish ladi gentlemen,0
2295,"congratul you, mr. president, assumpt respons steer work seventy-fifth session gener assembl assur sierra leone’ full support tenure.",0
2296,"commend excellency, mr. tijjani muhammad-band nigeria, effect effici leadership 74th unga session — period challenging.",0
2297,"commend secretary-gener antonio guterr astut leadership profound commit work organization. particular, acknowledge, appreciation, call global ceasefir current pandemic, set covid-19 respons fund, advanc urgent need address climat change, implement sustain develop goals.",0
2300,"sierra leone, therefore, support call global solidar cooper prevention, curtailment, treatment covid-19 pandemic, well associ recoveri programmes.",0
2301,"effect, would like encourag secretari gener work assembl stakehold expedit implement covid- 19-relat resolutions. would also like encourag member state august assembl share relev information, scientif knowledge, best practic disease, well enhanc equit fair access medicines, vaccin medic equip nations.",0
2302,"given global health pandemic, theme session, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action” therefor appropriate, relevant, timely.",0
2304,"time isolationist sentiments, geopolit tensions, econom uncertainti escalating, multilater rules-bas system sever tested. un charter remain foundat multilater system, intern cooperation, global peac security. provid framework maintain peac security, uphold human right dignity, promot sustain develop intern cooper tackl longstand emerg challenges.",0
2305,"view this, sierra leon reaffirm firm commit multilater embodi charter unit nations.",0
2306,"are, regard, commit promot intern cooper address present emerg challeng confront world, includ collect engag prevent conflict well advanc durabl peac settlement conflict disputes.",0
2307,"must continu build gain made prevent diplomaci efforts, continu heighten collaboration, utilis experi help unit nation achiev rel intern peac secur last 75 years.",0
2310,"collect multilater aspir hope safer secur world embodi adopt 2030 agenda 17 sustain develop goal  sdg , addi ababa action agenda, pari climat chang agreement.",0
2311,"covid-19 pandem make time attain object 2030 agenda unlikely, imper respond cooper pandem way put nation back track acceler progress toward achiev sdg. reduc econom activity, revenu losses, budget constraint huge cost manag pandem advers affect effort achiev sustain development, strengthen resilience, walk fragility.",0
2312,"implement sierra leone’ medium-term nation develop plan  2019-2023 , align sdg au’ agenda 2063, face challeng gener requir domest revenu fund project sundri capac manag constraints. must also strengthen public health institutions, rebuild, build back better.",0
2313,"regard, sierra leon fulli support current effort organ intern financi institutions, continu call emerg debt relief standstil mechan intern financi institutions.",0
2315,"beyond short-term, quick-fix-and-exit-strategi characteris gener global pandem response, africa need global commit debt cancel least develop countri work hard address longterm structur problem economies.",0
2316,"sierra leone, believ imposs make necessari progress global agenda education, health, gender equality, climat chang reduc inequality,violence, injustice, corruption. medium- term nationaldevelop plan  2019-2023  prioritis human developmentcapital. therefor work implement critic driver sustain development.",0
2318,"sinc launch country’ free qualiti educ flagship,w increas alloc 21 per cent budget, increas enrol educ institut nationwid spite of,and prioritis innov scienc aspect govern nation develop establish director science, technolog innov work close ministri technic higher education.",0
2322,"support peacebuild commission, made great progress foster sustain peac sierra leon years. although sierra leon withdraw formal agenda, continu engag commiss need arises.",0
2323,"world summit held 2005, made commit earli reform secur council order make “more broadli representative, effici transpar thu enhanc effect legitimaci implement decisions”.",0
2324,"coordin african union committe ten reform unit nations, underscor peopl africa convinc ever present geopolit realiti current global health pandem compel comprehens reform secur council make way represent africa perman categori address under-represent non-perman categori council.",0
2328,"thank you!i bid greet peopl world express solidar regard time go through, moment histor scale challeng ever experienced.",0
2330,"turn point humankind significantli heighten responsibility. fate gener depend action take fail take day come. gener assembl 75 year found unit nations, one humankind’ great ideas.",0
2331,"thank listen me, could someth els time, commod becom increasingli preciou scarce. especi thank salvadoran outsid insid countri allow work them. and, all, thank god, happen him.",0
2333,"vast major world’ population, exist. peopl watch speeches, even recal gener assembl exists. depend age, may unawar ever existed. order test theory, past sever days, ask peopl everi walk life age question gener assembly. even know assembl session, minor people, know, even know theme go speak. believ result experiment, ask first person see watch speech.",0
2334,"say propon self-criticism, given fact that, presid el salvador, member gener assembl and, human being, firm believ potenti tool good.",0
2335,"however, warn gener assembl last year, world alreadi chang continu chang increasingli rapidly, whoever fail chang run risk disappearing. today’ world differ world year ago. moment record history, societi chang continu chang extent short time.",0
2336,"gener assembl done? mere send video-record statements, forc make chang respons pandem instead courag chang build futur want. chang alon insufficient, world continu change, whether not. some, word may sound harsh, high regard found principl unit nation assembl compel speak them.",0
2337,"want chang survives. want chang humankind use great tool. want chang us togeth hand chang world share destiny, gener assembly, risk becom irrelevant.",0
2338,"year come end, continu reel effect one greatest crise modern histori humankind. unit nation done? let us perform experi again: ask first person see unit nation done pandemic. connect would like thank countri organ help continu help us surviv crisis.",0
2342,"help, however, mostli bilater work, necessarili owe unit nation system. despit fact establish mainli deal event current existenti threat face humankind, lack leadership part organ unit world counter viru together.",0
2343,"cri could counterproductive. must see opportun wake-up call prepar similar, even powerful, blow — next global threat — and, important, take advantag uniqu histor opportun build creat future.",0
2344,"child — like believ long ago — thought futur mind carri away possibl — fli car human devot live art human robot would work want do. world imagin speak multifac way futur humankind’ collect conscious multicultur world, free war, channel effort explor star place within humankind’ reach.",0
2345,"young peopl imagin now, look toward future? answer natur disasters, pandemics, wars, apocalypt post-apocalypt scenario dystopian societies. believ me, tri experi again, ask first young person see: imagin planet earth future?",0
2346,"certain aspect futur mani us imagin children today realities. technolog reach level even dare futurologist could imagined. almost everyon listen supercomput pocket. moreover, mother may listen supercomputer.",0
2347,"smartphon today million time comput power supercomput took us moon. latest iphon far power supercomput 1970s, 1980 even 1990s. also billion supercomput scatter throughout globe, connect one anoth largest network human history.",0
2348,"year ago, hall, mention potenti network, and, sinc then, becom much larger powerful. year, even so. manag it? believ yet understand potenti potenti tool avail individu collect us it.",0
2350,"someth wrong world million peopl supercomput pocket problem remain — histor problem like hunger, homelessness, death curabl diseases, rel easi humankind resolve. whole world decid resolv everi one them, would solv matter month even sooner.",0
2351,"margin test abil chang world recent months. yet result incred intern local levels. see race vaccin collabor involv treatment viru global level. regard, warmli thank member italian medic community, particular, whose research led initi treatment save thousand live el salvador, mention entir world, great person risk, time knew littl virus. thank behalf peopl el salvador. applaus world would fall short justli sing praise.",0
2352,"local level, el salvador seen matter month put extrem precari human health-car system track becom first-world system. although progress remain made, realiz that, try, achiev much faster ever imagined. everi day fail work togeth order solv world humankind’ problem repres live lost forever. lose opportun forever.",0
2354,"pray god trend continu soon abl transform el salvador one safest place contin — countri that, two year ago, mani consid insecur countri world. much remain done. sever issu resolve, use tool humankind created, acceler process develop countri go through.",0
2355,"it. begin educ build new country. idea begin build model societi world, alreadi embodi sever societi particularities, exampl achiev part humankind. advoc vision accomplish interconnect society, therefor call thinker doer world want particip develop consolid countri work us build miracl sovereign state el salvador.",0
2356,"el salvador countri polit exist take leap urgent need gener assembly. el salvador, member enjoy avail govern desire, idea mission forward-look peopl strive creat future, while, time, contribut humankind — well excel weather wave everi month year.",0
2357,"countri process built, extrem exciting, would like speed process. entreat pioneer world help us public privat sphere almost complet connect throughout world key stroke reach everywher answer me, collabor build. tool order move humankind least littl bit right direction.",0
2358,"count creativ human imagination, differenti continu differenti us species. human speci live thousand year longer alway someth invent. possibl —humankind’ — futur almost limitless. take control destiny. humankind must alway seek path, purpos certain pioneer ensur conscious courag so. unit succeed achiev goal, may even live see architect one golden age humankind’ history.",0
2359,may god enlighten us allow us rebuild futur togeth brothers.,0
2360,"thank much.mr. president, mr. secretary-general, excellencies,",0
2361,"behalf govern republ san marino, would like congratul h.e. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session un gener assembl wish fruit work.",0
2362,"republ san marino support prioriti programm mention inaugur address ensur you, mr. president, full cooper work gener assembly. would like express country’ gratitud outgo president, h.e. tijjani muhammad-bande, import work carri 74th session. would also like extend special thank secretary-general, h.e. antonio guterres, energi determin lead unit nation difficult challeng time.",0
2365,"unfortunately, alone.",0
2368,"san marino co-sponsor ga resolut global solidar fight covid-19, unit nation gener assembly, univers bodi nations, sent strong messag unity, solidar intern cooperation. also support co-sponsorship resolut name intern cooper ensur global access medicines, vaccin medic equip face covid-19, highlight import intern cooper underscor equit access health product global priority. last month also join sever collect declarations. respons un secretary-general’ call countri priorit children’ education, food, health safeti amid covid-19 pandemic, co-sign joint declar protect children, state vital work togeth prevent mitig risk children face. need ensur children access inclus qualiti education, nutrit health care, well strengthen social protect systems. must prevent combat form violence, includ domest violence, abus sexual exploit children onlin offline, cyberbullying, bridg digit divide. part group friend children arm conflict, san marino welcom posit result common caus end prevent grave violat children arm conflict. regard, would like thank ms. virginia gamba staff, who, great dedication, final terrif number action plan commit also last year. despit success results, recogn great concern remain.",0
2370,"san marino join collect declar regard impact covid 19 older persons. believ import promot respect digniti right older peopl mitig neg impact covid-19 pandem health, lives, right wellbeing. moreover, recogn import contribut older person make societies, call particip respons pandemic. countri also co-sponsor joint declar disability-inclus respons covid-19 — toward better futur all. pandemic, person disabl experienc greater attitudinal, environment institut barrier discrimination, exclus access health-car servic information, well face seriou disrupt employment, education, access social protect support services. global respons recoveri disability- inclusive, protect right need person disabl place center efforts, envisag convent right person disabl 2030 agenda sustain development.",0
2371,"regard, i’m pleas say offic high commission human right includ covid-19 guidanc triag bioethic committe republ san marino among so-cal “promis practices”.",0
2378,"context, need acceler pace scale actions, want achiev 2030 agenda sustain development. san marino strongli support decad action launch secretari gener begin year. believ that, crisi endang progress toward sdgs, also offer uniqu opportun pursu transform recoveri covid-19, lead us build inclus societi base sustain develop one left behind. respons pandem must base new social contract respect right freedom provid equal opportun all. recent develop global polit landscap creat obstacl develop multilater put risk. challeng pose today protection isolation must counter intern cooper rule intern law, guid member state decades. essenti preserv valu multilater intern cooperation, underpin unit nation charter agenda 2030 sustain develop order promot support peac security, develop human rights. san marino among strongest advoc rules-bas multilateralism.",0
2379,"conclusion, mr. president,",0
2380,"today ever, believ fundament reaffirm commit valu principl charter unit nations, sign san francisco 75 year ago.",0
2382,"thank you.honour presid assembly, excellencies, distinguish guests, ladi gentleman,",0
2383,"great honour privileg address occas 75th anniversari unit nations. special 75th anniversari multilater global union peace, progress prosperity, fundament recommit un charter broad-bas consensu effect cooper common sustain intern development. consensus, cooper target common action never import time, world challeng politically, social econom covid-19 health pandemic.",0
2388,"given grave health challeng pose world, particular vulner nation like somalia, feel confid greater public health collaboration, inform share equit distribut potenti covid-19 health treatment current development, perman revers deadli impact viru everi human planet. way secur common futur and, therefore, must we, commun nations, reaffirm collect commit multilater confront covid-19 effect coordin multilater action.",0
2389,"excellencies, distinguish guests, ladi gentleman,",0
2391,"government’ econom polici respons covid-19 has, again, put peopl first tax relief key stapl food items. now, hope worst behind us, cautious start open economi ensur normal life resum people. however, also understand huge challeng build back better, stronger equit covid-19 impact somalia.",0
2394,"somalia work through, with, un creat better futur somalia world. take lead deliv develop peopl work valuabl intern partner ensur rebuild democratic, inclus econom prosper somalia. despit challeng covid-19, still work hard undertak inclus nation elect somali peopl determin future. firmli commit promot instil strong tradit democraci account govern serv somali peopl first foremost.",0
2396,"look forward, fundament fulli realiz sustain develop goal everi citizen world. cannot afford leav anyon behind. mean unit nation also improv further, innov faster deliv better fragil nation vulner communities. un support nation person develop assist strengthen nation institut frameworks, systemat knowledg transfer invest human capital. real long-term invest actual contribut poverti allevi creation opportun all.",0
2398,75th un anniversari 75th anniversari sign un charter import jubile entir mankind.,0
2399,republ serbia strongli support multilater principl un charter.,0
2400,"sovereign equal countries, denial use force, non-interfer intern matter countries, respect sovereignti territori integrity, peac resolut conflict respect differ principl whose valid never must never questioned.",0
2401,big chang intern scene brought 21st centuri make need strict observ un charter well-known basic principl stronger.,0
2402,"year big jubilees, mark time 75th anniversari end second world war. repres countri peopl suffer lot mani victim fight nazism fascism, want convey common duti keep memori learn devast conflict modern history, well jointli confront attempt relativ feroci crime second world war. help lesson learn bitter past build new, brighter vision future.",0
2403,"republ serbia among big countries, neither territori population.",0
2404,"unit nation gener assembl place utmost significance, place small one well right opportun make points, defend arguments.",0
2405,"honor address today behalf republ serbia, countri firmli commit polici peac prosper entir mankind.",0
2406,"debat today virtual format speak situat today’ world confirm must anyth preserv strengthen unit nation gener assembly, import forum opinion member state import topic global import heard.",0
2411,"unit nation need, today future, must adapt newli occur circumst readi joint respons modern age challenges.",0
2413,"precis regard unit nation must key role need work continu adapting, strengthen effici unit nation system, best way toward full achiev idea multilateralism.",0
2414,newli occur realiti world anoth proof modern challeng know border countries.,0
2415,"serbia also face problem fight diseas caus tecton chang worldwid receiv assist friendli countri need most, take opportun thank again.",0
2416,"say mani thank european partners, chines friends, russian friend well.",0
2417,"likewise, show solidar provid assist countri keep help need difficult times.",0
2418,avail opportun extend big gratitud help support provid unit nation world health organ govern republ serbia fight pandemic.,0
2419,"hand, besid alreadi alloc financi support strengthen respons healthcar system covid-19, keep support world health organization, well coalit epidem prepared innov  cepi  lead stakehold field immunization.",0
2422,"rich country, say also poor country, hope end year we’ll biggest growth rate entir europe. far, first six months, becam first countri — least countri biggest growth rate, hope abl continu manner.",0
2423,"dear friends,",0
2424,"full membership european union foreign polici prioriti republ serbia. however, european path exclud commit develop cooper deepen relat countri regions. cherish partnership relat western countries, includ intens cooper usa, time proud except relat russian feder people’ republ china. and, see, don’t hide that, proud friendships. cooper friendli african, asia-pacif latin american countri also focu foreign polici activities.",0
2425,"additionally, improv region cooper basic start point foreign polici believ relat neighbor act respons reliabl partner. commit preserv region stabil intensifi cooper areas, contribut reconcili process, closer connect develop benefit citizen entir region.",0
2427,"context, serbia strive put special emphasi develop econom cooperation, believ approach may contribut rais mutual trust, confidence, therebi easier resolv open issues.",0
2428,"guid precis need promot econom cooper creat favor invest climat western balkan region, fall 2019, togeth prime minster north macedonia albania, zoran zaev edi rama, inaugur initi direct toward enabl freedom movement people, goods, servic capital, much closer cooper three countries.",0
2429,"want underlin initi open stakehold western balkan herebi invit join, essenc fulli inclus everybodi region.",0
2430,"believ european perspect region remain import incent necessari reform process promot cooperation. believ without full integr western balkan eu, common econom polit space european contin complet convinc enlarg polici interest citizen western balkans, also interest european union.",0
2433,"familiar problem regard preserv territori integr serbia, i.e. effort resolv — despit obstacles, issu autonom provinc kosovo metohija. precis polit serbia preserv peac stability, cooper econom progress i’v mention earlier, suffici incent approach resolv long last problem, best interest serb albanians.",0
2434,"path, face numer pressur serbia crossroad differ polit interest collide. believ possibl reach solut long difficult dialogue, rest assur serbia never agre humiliations. accept anyth compromis us. and, compromise, side must equal either satisfi dissatisfied.",0
2435,"recent renew belgrade-pristina dialogu eu auspices, almost two year deadlock, mean first step path.",0
2436,"additionally, big step forward find mutual accept solut issu kosovo metohija recent sign agreement econom normal washington, d.c., involv set econom infrastructur projects, enabl better life citizen part countri region.",0
2438,"dialogu belgrad provision institut self-govern pristina, continu brussel eu intermediation, real path reach sustain agreement two sides, start point mean humili unaccept so-cal independ kosovo.",0
2439,"despit everything, believ agreement serb albanian key region stability. republ serbia remain commit find compromis solut issu kosovo build common futur polit peac cooperation.",0
2440,"ladi gentlemen, excellencies,",0
2441,"republ serbia commit peac secur well social econom prosper nation region dimension, also awar import activ engag area globally. attach big import un effort promot preserv peac secur worldwid activ particip collect secur system.",0
2442,"continu tradit yugoslavia’ particip un peacekeep missions, start 1956, repres serbia activ engag un eu peacekeep missions. great pride underlin lead countri western balkan region, 9th biggest contributor list lead european arm polic forc un missions.",0
2443,"additionally, serbia continu contribut fight terror full implement un global counter-terror strategi relev resolut unit nation secur council.",0
2445,"un charter “constitution” modern intern community, collect basic principl regul intern relat process intern commun one must stand back from.",0
2446,"unfortunately, end 20th century, countri wit victim unilater measur activ undermin question effici multilater intern cooper mechanisms, intern law itself.",0
2447,"feder republ yugoslavia, time, bomb without consent unit nation secur council, wherebi un charter sever violated.",0
2449,"defend sovereignti territori integr observ un sc resolut 1244  1999 , republ serbia time defend intern law, un charter well supremaci secur council.",0
2450,"believ essenti strengthen upcom period effort preserv principl organ found 75 year ago. convinc role unit nation process remain irreplaceable. rest assur republ serbia continu act seriou reliabl partner achiev common goals, strengthen cooper within unit nation build better futur us.",0
2452,"unesco special pieti emphas mediev art dare say signific man 20th 21st century, scientist nikola tesla, prove contribut civil common good. time frame white angel fresco, first paint went orbit, tesla, cover period renaiss contemporaries.",0
2453,"strive toward last peac common wellbeing, serbia oblig militari neutrality. rightli believ one strongest messag peac went balkan world.",0
2454,great american artist isidora duncan said great war:,0
2455,"“violenc big power often turn them. best exampl great brutal small exampl small serbian nation, put end empir last almost thousand years.”",0
2456,"serbia despis kind violence. serbia want peac prosperity, entir mankind. serbia want peac region.",0
2457,thank attent stay safehonor presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl,0
2458,honor secretary-gener unit nation,0
2459,honor head state govern,0
2460,honor deleg,0
2461,ladi gentlemen,0
2462,excel,0
2463,"would like begin remark congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly, offer full support term office, wish full successes.",0
2464,"indeed, elect reflect recognition, among member state organization, role countri play intern arena extens experience. certain greatli contribut success session’ work, allow identifi better path toward resolut major issu face intern community.",0
2465,would also like express gratitud professor tijjani muhammad band congratul wisdom dedic conduct work 74th session.,0
2471,"regard, unfortun continu see persist tension spot major humanitarian repercuss planet.",0
2474,"perenni issu western sahara continu caus concern us demand greater involv us search perman solut prolong negoti process. therefore, reiter call involv parti resum negoti reach mutual accept polit resolution.",0
2475,"addition, situat middl east also continu caus concern us, light constant hostil israel palestine, well situat syria yemen. therefore, must find compromis put end hostil pave way open dialog negoti toward polit solut establish last peac region world.",0
2480,"take opportun express appreci wave bilater multilater solidar benefit sao tome & principe, allow us escap potenti disaster. offer sincer profound gratitud intern community.",0
2481,"however, light devast effect covid-19 pandem economi fragil countries, sao tome & principe, small island state, renew call continu spirit solidar support post- covid-19 econom recovery, like challenging.",0
2483,"note, however, world chang significantli sinc creation organ 1945, urgent need adapt new challeng time.",0
2484,"therefore, reiter call reform process underway unit nation acceler order give greater momentum increas representation, effectiveness, capacity, legitimaci action lead mainten intern peac secur thu drive develop throughout world.",0
2485,mr. secretary-gener,0
2487,"however, awar intern effort requir us overcom enorm challeng face graduation. therefore, strongli appeal intern community’ continu support new stage country’ development.",0
2488,"closing, would like express wish world may see better day 75th session august gener assembly, peac security, progress toward sustain develop countri long for.",0
2489,"thank much attention.your excel volkan bozkir, presid gener assembl excel antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nation excellencies, colleagues, minist perman representatives, ladi gentlemen,",0
2490,introduct,0
2491,inde unpreced time histor anniversari global bodi nations. would honour person deliv maiden address rostrum gener assembly. onset continu preval covid-19 prevent this. thank make optim use modern technology.,0
2492,presid 75th session gener assembl undoubtedli face challeng conduct intern relat confer diplomacy. pleas allow pledg full support success discharg duties.,0
2493,"salut predecessor, tijjani muhammad-bande, skill leadership previou session wish well futur endeavors.",0
2494,"secretary-gener antonio guterres, wish pay tribut sterl effort guid organization.",0
2498,theme years’ session gener debat therefor opportune.,0
2499,"unit nation remain premier intern multilater organ exert emin role place develop further principl pertain intern relations, intern law, intern peac — development.",0
2501,"despit consider progress made global discuss varieti matter — climat change, sustain development, migration, refugees, terrorism, cyber-warfar nuclear prolifer — experienc multilater occasion come attack.",0
2502,"sinc found unit nation 75 year ago, geopolit field chang drastically. secur council membership work method need structur evaluation.",0
2503,imagin elabor two  2  decad reform main organ!,0
2504,therefor fit ask organ still relev current form. answer question today’ challeng aspirations?,0
2505,"hope, mr. president, don’t ask question 75 years!",0
2506,therefor utmost import multilater adapt chang times.,0
2507,call intern commun nation embark strateg assess exist multilater framework.,0
2508,"let us, base current realities, challenges, dare creat new multilater fundament focus peac prosper nation allow increas effici support institut framework.",0
2509,"multilateralism, acknowledg nations, irrespect size develop level place global order, equal respect.",0
2510,multilater complianc everi state intern law intern accept principl form bedrock interact ,0
2511,"multilateralism, base intern cooper confront mani global challeng seiz common opportunities, promot cultur inclus equality.",0
2512,"unilater action alway proven counterproduct never lead achiev defin objective. nevertheless, dialogu activ involv countries, take account intern principles, strive for.",0
2513,"importantly, mr. president, multilater necessit us recommit vision un charter.",0
2514,"regard, call lift longstand unilater economic, financi commerci embargo republ cuba people.",0
2515,multilater climat chang,0
2516,"focu intern commun current manag contain spread covid-19 pandemic, continu dedic attent challeng equal even greater impact sustain develop countri entir planet.",0
2517,address impact climat chang one challenges.,0
2518,"countri 239 mile low-li coastline, surinam among top 10 vulner countri respect disastr effect sea-level rise result global warming.",0
2519,"despit position, surinam taken lead countri highest forest cover low deforest rate, advoc mobil financi resourc support sustain development, make signific contribut mitig global warming.",0
2520,"estim stand forest store 12 gigaton forest carbon per year. small contribut all, believe!",0
2521,"however, nation commit may serv particular domest concerns, maxim impact strong intern engag necessari ambiti attain targets.",0
2523,reform intern system,0
2524,"past year realiz reform unit nation system, much remain done.",0
2525,"particip develop countries, especi small economies, global financi trade system one long overdu reform take place.",0
2527,way forward,0
2528,develop countri nation south passiv quest development.,0
2530,"essenc peopl elect us for. intern commun expect leaders, exampl inspir leadership vanguard hope common humanity.",0
2531,"hope allow us break wall mistrust, may take form intolerance, fear, violence. hope lead us strive peac prosper predecessor did.",0
2532,"particularli hope give upcom gener leader strength elev global assembl world leader place where, collectively, nation world find way make better life possibl global community, next 75 years.",0
2533,"congratul us reach mileston anniversary. let us unity, respect solidar strive make next 75 year even better save future.",0
2534,"thank you.mr. presid gener assembly,",0
2535,"excellences,",0
2537,"75 year ago, organ built simpl idea benefit cooper alway prevail selfish conflict. today, need idea becom realiti urgent ever.",0
2540,"one import lesson learn first month covid-19 ordinari peopl achiev extraordinari thing led solidar compassion. peopl around world understood respons behaviour save lives, even meant limit comfort. need take share respons protect others. would even dare say pandem crisi brought best us.",0
2541,"respons leader appli among nations. that' need true global compassion. concret terms: must allow develop product vaccin medic suppli becom yet anoth global competition. essential, life-sav commodities. such, provis sign humanity, matter econom profit. need share inform foster partnership among scientists, manufactur governments. provid vaccin anyon planet, regardless, whether afford not.",0
2544,"finally, trust. confid citizen govern right. peopl need know protect lie to.",0
2545,"guardian principl must free independ media, renown expert scientists, activ civil society. respons creat environ work freely. attack them, undermin abil solv problem collectively. make societi vulnerable, includ disinform hoaxes, proven especi danger relat health issues.",0
2547,"unfortunately, alway case. often see situat world, peopl intimidated, beaten even threaten lives. recent saw belarus, case alexei navalnyj, mani cases. stood rights. spread authoritarian diseas threat us.",0
2548,"one remark lesson covid-19. often hear certain chang impossible, take year make them. time, different.",0
2549,"experi much quickli achiev will realis common threat, chang behaviour work togeth order prevent it. vis-a-vi covid-19, also come global threats, well.",0
2552,"let us renew commit among us, even take — along mention principl solidarity, respons trust, resolv act shown current pandemic. then, chang threat — covid-19 climat chang — opportun benefit all.",0
2553,"thank you.excellences, ladi gentlemen, dear friends, mr. presid",0
2554,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations. 75 year ago, predecessor abl util experi devast world war took lead build vision better world.",0
2555,world prosper peace.,0
2556,world global wellbeing.,0
2557,world global cooper serv futur generations.,0
2558,establish unit nations.,0
2559,"today, dear friends, famili nation face less devast threats: global health econom crisis, degrad environ — threaten wellb kind home — planet.",0
2561,"face threat human nowadays, build common resilience, ladi gentlemen, one strong enough alon  need vigilant, active, responsible, brave wise — together.",0
2562,"rapidli chang global environment, increasingli depend new technolog digit infrastructure.",0
2564,need frame servic humankind. slovenia make effort direct first unesco global center artifici intellig establish ljubljana last november.,0
2565,"one main challeng cybersecurity. accord view, cyberspac secure, global, open, free inclusive.",0
2566,"fragment weaken intern secur regim worrying. strengthen commit effective, treaty-bas intern arm control, disarma non-proliferation.",0
2567,press prolifer issu solv diplomat peac means.,0
2568,"precondit achiev sustain peac reconciliation, deal grave violat human rights. therefor support intern crimin court central institut fight impunity.",0
2569,continu engag partnership cooper un fora.,0
2570,"slovenia especi activ landmin clearanc efforts, affect live civilians, particular children. glad report itf enhanc human security, slovenian non-profit organization, manag maintain oper capac presenc field midst pandemic.",0
2571,sustain develop goal clear roadmap green healthi planet. slovenia eu presid second half 2021 put environment protect high agenda. cop26 next year real game-changer.,0
2572,"recent first time, slovenia contribut one million euro un green climat fund.",0
2575,"slovenia’ initiative, un proclaim world bee day, celebr 20th may, recogn import bee pollin food security, biodivers sustain development.",0
2576,"person advocaci environment protect global local, base introduc public debat climat change, establish committe climat polici support youth movements.",0
2577,would like reaffirm slovenia’ person commit stop unpreced rate biodivers loss halt climat chang effects.,0
2578,join “leader pledg nature”.,0
2581,"country, slovenia, came being, inspir quest democraci fundament rights. know — current covid-19 crisi confirm — human right never taken granted.",0
2582,"situat vulner group — without suffici health care prosecut histor marginalized, worsened.",0
2583,need stress place discrimin base person statu modern societies.,0
2584,nobodi left behind.,0
2585,mark 25 year adopt beij declar platform action celebr gain gender equal women empowerment.,0
2586,"75 year ago mother father said “never again”. said “no” anoth total war, pointless death suffering, nationalist extremist tendencies, life uncertainti fear.",0
2587,"— well mani you, grew peac prosperity, world, built valu idea un founders. yes, un fail prevent conflicts, could oftentim react quicker, better, determined. nevertheless, agre world better place sinc 24 octob 1945 unit nations.",0
2588,"however, ladi gentlemen,",0
2589,world today differ place 75 year ago. today’ world less predict less secur yesterday.,0
2590,"amidst covid-19 pandemic, fact celebr import anniversari unpreced way — us differ part world, clearli indic capabl adapt. adapt joint work one human one planet share.",0
2591,"let therefor take opportun reaffirm slovenia’ commit multilater cooper framework un intern region organizations, includ within scope eu membership presid 2021.",0
2592,"mind, vital progress made respect human rights, intern law rule law comprehensive, inclusive, sustain develop societies.",0
2593,world increasingli connect interdependent. covid-19 crisi undoubtedli shown that.,0
2595,"75 year ago, predecessor built first bridge. today world tight network bridges, ask you, sake present futur generations, sake love one yourself, tear down.",0
2596,wish congratul us.,0
2597,"wish congratul thank predecessors, brave visionari enough start all.",0
2598,wish congratul gener parent gener keep go despit obstacles.,0
2599,"wish youth, slowli take over, courag wisdom better us.",0
2600,"would like give final word emin slovenian novelist bori pahor, also known oldest known survivor nazi concentr camps, 107 year age still outspoken fighter totalitarianisms.",0
2601,"says: “human enough wisdom power find path lead us crises, toward becom ethic human being.” believ him.",0
2602,"hvala! thank you!“excellencies,",0
2604,"time like test resili societi intern cooperation. ever, need work togeth solidarity.",0
2605,"spirit, sweden qatar co-chair negoti “declar commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nations”, adopt 21 september. member state sent strong messag support rules-bas intern order multilateralism. re-commit strengthen intern cooperation, modern, innov inclus un core.",0
2607,"-	the pandemic,",0
2608,"-	the climat crisis,",0
2609,"-	widen inequalities,",0
2610,-	violat intern law,0
2611,-	and threat intern peace.,0
2612,"create, secretary-gener guterr call recent mandela lecture, new social contract new global deal.",0
2613,sweden fulli support un’ leadership global covid-19 respons recognis crucial role world health organization.,0
2614,"far, sweden contribut $170 million global response. togeth number world leaders, express commit secur equit global access futur covid-19 vaccines. one safe everyon safe. secur access vaccin global challeng requir intern cooper solidarity.",0
2615,"climat chang one press issues. throughout world, young old peopl alik march togeth street demand decisionmak like us act line scientif recommendations. must reshap societi lower emissions. sweden strive first fossil-fre welfar nation welcom competit beat us post.",0
2616,62 91,0
2617,21-00394,0
2618,75 592 add.8,0
2622,25th anniversari landmark “beij declaration” platform action” offer opportun intensifi effort gender equality. sweden readi take lead role un women’ “global action coalit econom justic rights”. delight see other join sweden pursu feminist foreign policy.,0
2624,"sweden continu promot drive democracy, aim strengthen respect democrat principl institutions, civil societi intern law. support secretary-general’ “call action human rights”.",0
2626,"also seen trade barrier introduc pandemic. free, fair sustain trade key order creat new job increas prosperity. world trade organ essenti role uphold rules-bas intern trade system.",0
2627,"around world, record number peopl need humanitarian aid survive. protract conflict yemen result world’ largest humanitarian crisis. urg donor step support humanitarian response. support un peac effort urg parti immedi agre ceasefire,",0
2628,63 91,0
2629,inclus polit talk continu implement stockholm riyadh agreements.,0
2630,extend solidar support lebanes peopl follow devast explos beirut.,0
2632,fight impun intern crime remain essential. sweden steadfast support intern crimin court.,0
2633,"women’ influenc — peac processes, polit transit crisi recoveri — crucial. year mark 20th anniversari secur council resolut 1325  2000   must year concret action.",0
2634,sweden remain activ partner unit nation through:,0
2635,"-	financi core support,",0
2636,"-	diplomacy,",0
2637,-	mediat,0
2638,"-	and contributor militari polic personnel un peac operations, includ minusma. follow develop mali great concern. peaceful, swift transit civilian leadership, democrat elections, vital.",0
2640,"support, viabl mean solv conflict israel palestine, negoti solut two state live peac security. must base intern agre paramet end occupation. eu posit clear: annex occupi territori illegal.",0
2642,"plenti challeng across globe, also hope. sudan once-in-a-gener opportunity. women young peopl took street 2019, demand polit change, courag polit decis followed. sudan deserv support difficult path democracy.",0
2643,"next year, sweden assum role chair organ secur co-oper europe. main prioriti work conflict resolut build osc comprehens concept security, democraci human right core. european secur order must upheld, renegotiated.",0
2644,"sweden alarm situat belaru follow elect 9 august, neither free fair. increas repress peac demonstrators, journalist opposit leader unacceptable. stand solidar belarusian peopl desir exercis fundament democrat rights. continu call belarusian leadership stop repress engag genuin dialogu op-position. stand readi facilit dialogue.",0
2645,"year also mark 75th anniversari atom bomb hiroshima nagasaki. serv tragic remind catastroph humanitarian consequ use nuclear weapons. nuclear threat present ever. mileston treati abandon risk, new nuclear capabl developed. call unit state russia agre extens “new start treaty”, china join discuss follow- arrangements.",0
2647,"togeth eu, strongli support full implement “joint comprehens plan action”.",0
2648,call democrat people’ republ korea adher intern oblig take step toward denuclearisation.,0
2649,remain commit peac resolut situat korean peninsula.,0
2650,futur gener grow differ world. opportun shape direction.,0
2651,"togeth countries, sweden mobilis support secretary-gener advanc common agenda laid seventi fifth anniversari declaration.",0
2652,"-	together, build better societies.",0
2653,"-	together, build stronger societies.",0
2654,"and, together, address challeng lie ahead. thank you.mr. president,",0
2655,"excellencies, head state govern",0
2656,"honour address 75th session unit nation gener assembly. congratul you, excellency, follow appoint presid session. also express appreci predecessor outstand work contribut success 74th session.",0
2659,"yet come togeth reflect here, know work far complete, acknowledg spirit cooper held us bound, face its’ greatest challeng thu far. reason therefor welcom year’ theme, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",0
2660,"year’ theme, rightli challeng us critic self-examine. 75th session unit nation gener assembly, must year come togeth discuss prioriti human family, build better futur all. remind unit nation revisit stick ideal recogn dignity, priorit valu cooper equal worth all, leav one behind.",0
2661,"earlier year, unit nation held commemor sign charter unit nations, present opportun us reflect relev charter today, recommit goal principl laid therein. kingdom eswatini welcom host event join other share thought relat initi sign develop occur now.",0
2662,"further, cast sight forward imagin potenti challeng could aris us deal with. remain absolut fact us, that, whatev challeng come before, whatev strife face today whatev incid may lay wait us, deal best, deal together.",0
2664,"however, still must recogn inconsist collect behavior. mani countri continu live poverti amid great natur wealth. mani instances, nation interest continu imped resolut crises. challeng migrant flow requir collect approach.",0
2666,"kingdom eswatini, like rest world, deal impact covid-19 pandemic. us, came time kingdom face multipl battl scourg hiv, malaria tuberculosis, place huge strain resources. rel small economy, boast huge reserv financ fight new onslaught. welcom recent held high-level event financ develop era covid-19 beyond.",0
2669,"commun nation must accept realiti crisi forev chang way life  must resist temptat revert back knew normal, duti prepar “new normal”. opportun beckon pandem reveal consid normal shown lack abil deliv mani socio-econom needs. therefore, focu entail respons crisi so, shape futur face possibl crises.",0
2670,"success prepared respons plan must incorpor strategi strengthen nation beyond recovery. relev strategi mark birth new societi present futur want. easi isol way fix present prepar future, except collect commit multilateralism. unit nation intern body, famili nations, therefore, alway center catalyst multilater support futur want, extension, unit nation need.",0
2671,"juncture, let commend presid gener assembly, secretari gener staff unit nations, intern financi institutions, develop partner everyon quick respons reaction mitig impact pandem midst implement 2030 agenda sustain goals. mani countri benefit gone unnoticed. world commit rio de janeiro 2012, opportun time reiter recommit sustain develop promot economically, social environment sustain futur planet present futur generations.",0
2674,"welcom mandat event schedul held margin gener assembl year, name twenty-fifth anniversari fourth world confer women, high-level meet commemor promot intern day total elimin nuclear weapon summit biodiversity. trust event shall success.",0
2675,"intim earlier, 2020 mark twenty-fifth anniversari fourth world confer women adopt beij declar platform action. signific year acceler realiz gender equal empower women girls. nonetheless, lament though global commun celebr twenty-fifth anniversari fourth world confer women, countri achiev full gender equality. poverty, violenc women girls, relentless pushback women’ right gender equal remain preval across world.",0
2676,"believ anniversari appropri occas give new momentum action. encourag governments, civil societi stakehold assess gains, identifi gap challenges, critic set prioriti gener futur generations. challeng world facing, never import advanc elimin form discrimin violenc women girls, now. need renew polit deliv commit made. let us recommit common goal achiev gender equal empower women girl enjoy human rights, everywhere.",0
2678,"evalu current statu organization, must reflect ongo process reforms. process, is, itself, tacit admiss part chang need happen ensur continu relev un its’ subsidiari bodies. time elaps sinc discuss began, caus concern. however, believ year give us moral imper push acceler progress reforms.",0
2679,"support ongo discuss within framework ad hoc work revit work un gener assembl  ahwg  seek find mechan enhanc role effici gener assembly. recogn work gone streamlin work econom social council  ecosoc , particular relat function gener assembl enhanc synergi reduc overlap two bodies.",0
2681,"conclude, among polit issu continu fester long continu denial right peopl taiwan particip un system.",0
2682,"taiwan shown signific commit ideal unit nation align prioriti organization. taiwan has, further, commit signific resourc attain sustain develop goals, within boundaries, go far assist countri same.",0
2683,"earlier reflect upon assist kingdom eswatini fight covid-19 pandemic, taiwan deserv special mention regard. uncertain times, resourc dwindling, taiwan express commit toward collabor global citizenship, shown manifest support develop initi undertaken countri and, particular, kingdom eswatini.",0
2684,"global interdepend world, crucial work togeth construct counsel appropriate. unit nation home interact role, retain unmitig support kingdom eswatini.",0
2685,"thank may almighti god bless you.your excellency, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly,",0
2687,"rarely, press time creativ think innov respond modern challenges.",0
2689,"effective, joint effort need coordin deliv revitalis inclus multilater system, compris voic stakeholders, includ youth, civil societi privat sector ensur global all-of-societi approach.",0
2691,"seychel step challeng despit face economi crippl collaps tourism, primari industry.",0
2693,"join undertak tourism businesses, key driver seychelles’ economi continu play instrument role draft seychelles’ tourism comeback togeth government. however, everyth seychel done date minimis impact covid-19 sustain longterm deplet foreign exchang reserves.",0
2695,forese 14 per cent budgetari deficit year instead 4 per cent surplu project covid-19. seychel economi set grow 3.9 per cent year end 2020 -15.2 per cent.,0
2696,"estim take least five year seychel return covid-19, assum world get vaccin ensur novel coronaviru longer global public health threat.",0
2699,"however, cannot maintain long term, often cost worsen debt burden part loom global debt crisis.",0
2700,"shortag effect global solut sid unit nation celebr 75th anniversari alarming.th ultim test multilater lie way assist vulner economi today, ultim decid whether attain futur want.",0
2701,"call relev stakehold take immediate, substanti tailor action allow us manag crisi address grave socio-econom impact preserv develop achiev reinforc resili futur shocks.",0
2703,"intern financi institut re-examin elig criteria tailor sids’ access concession financ take account extrem vulner economic, climat public health shock put us particular risk disadvantage.",0
2704,"seychel back aosis, allianc small island states, call sid compact, cater specif persist constraint vulnerabilities.",0
2709,cannot healthi recoveri covid-19 pandem heal poor relationship natur environment. say goe human health depend nature’ health.,0
2710,"understand well seychel two main pillar economy, tourism fishing, depend state natural, especi ocean, environment.",0
2711,"so, march 26 year pandem rage across world, seychel went ahead deliv 2012 rio+20 commit protect 30 per cent giant exclus econom zone 1.34 million squar kilometr 2020.",0
2712,"recognit even dealt public health emergency, cherish import natur people’ physical, econom social wellbeing.",0
2715,"achiev 1.5-degre celsiu goal remain critic leav countri behind.th drop greenhous ga emiss improv air qualiti pandem temporary, research show neglig impact climat crisis.",0
2716,"know long covid-19 pandem last, know head toward temperatur increas approxim 3 degre celsiu busi continu usual. devast consequ us all, especi sid vulner countries.",0
2717,covid-19 biggest global challeng time. climat chang number one threat humanity.,0
2718,postpon cop26 novemb 2021 mean postpon climat action urgently-need effort rais climat ambitions.,0
2719,seychelles’ updat nation determin contribut  ndc  climat pledg pari agreement accordingli whole chapter har ocean surround island nature-bas climat action.,0
2720,"seychelles’ ndc champion blue carbon ecosystem mangrov vast expans seagrass meadows, form part new marin protect areas.",0
2721,enabl us big ocean state contribut global fight climat chang far reli sole land-bas actions.,0
2724,mani argu societi unwil make behaviour chang necessari address climat chang effectively. countries’ respons covid-19 show otherwis  chang previous unthink ways.,0
2728,"transform take us all, vulner countri fragil economi included, sustain resili post-covid world better equip meet goal 2030 agenda pari agreement climat change, small island develop states.",0
2730,"honest ourselves, must admit answer clear. stray everi day principl valu underpin unit nation intern norms. govern illeg impos agenda nation use unit nation sole purpos further agendas.",0
2731,"paradoxically, main theme year’ gener debat “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. quit frankli situat today bode well futur want, reflect unit nation need. want secur prosper future, free terrorism, occupation, inhuman sanctions. want futur respect intern law promot dialogu understand nations. need unit nation uphold principl purpos charter unequivoc stand war warmongers. need unit nation support member avoid politicization, illeg interference, attempt destroy nation communities. want along. need today ever before. true confront covid-19, pose global humanitarian socioeconom challeng spare nation. creat except condit extent forc address today remot pre-record statements. import question is: new realiti compel put asid narrow interest return right path?",0
2733,"hope work towards. unfortunately, realiti ground complet opposite. polit agenda continu take preced humanitarian agendas. covid-19 pandem rage across world, unilater coerciv measur impos syrian peopl peopl renew instead lifted. new measures, call “caesar syria civilian protect act,” ad fals pretexts. “the caesar syria civilian suffoc act” would fit name. deliveri lifesav medic medic equip block middl pandemic, realli protect civilian depriv treatment? effort rebuild syria destruct brought terrorist obstructed, realli serv syrian reduc employment, worsen live conditions, prevent return refuge idps? wheat field burn down, oil field looted, energi sector targeted, realli protect civilian deni access food, heating, gas, electricity?",0
2734,"could go on, think it’ clear real purpos act put pressur syrians, livelihoods, daili lives. inhuman attempt suffoc syrians, like georg floyd other cruelli suffoc unit states, like israel suffoc palestinian daili basis. though tactic may differ, essenc same.",0
2735,"unilater coerciv measur impos countri clearli violat intern law. humanitarian exempt repeatedli invok exist ground. fals claim intend cover inhuman save face. call affect countri reject measur close rank allevi impact peoples. happen cooperation, coordination, concret political, economic, commerci means.",0
2738,"make matter worse, turkish regim fail commit astana outcom sochi agreement idlib. move terrorist mercenari — refer “moder opposition” — syria libya.",0
2740,"continu illegitim presenc american turkish forc syrian soil meet legal condit occupation. syrian arab republ spare effort end occup mean possibl intern law. action forces, taken directli terrorist agents, secessionist militias, manufactur illegitim entities, null void, legal effect. flagrant violat syria’ sovereignty, independence, territori integrity. regard, condemn crime so-cal global coalit commit sinc start illeg intervent syrian jazira region. includ syphon oil, prevent farmer sell wheat syrian state, attack town syrian armi checkpoints, destroy hous infrastructure.",0
2741,also condemn action so-cal sdf. secessionist militia plot syria’ uniti peopl loot resources. detain kill civilian oppos northeast syria assassin region figures. messag simple: stand countri learn histori it’ late.,0
2742,"excel presid bashar al-assad, presid syrian arab republic, made posit clear above, speak elect member parliament:",0
2743,"“in middl global convuls throe chaos, obfuscation, lies, lose focus. miss target. enemies’ polici one support terrorism, polici decim terror liber remain territori restor territori integr protect people. time depend readi arm forc march battle. battl starts, distinguish homegrown terrorist foreign ones. differenti terrorist occupi forces. make distinct zionists, turks, americans. territory, enemies.”",0
2744,"regard, pay tribut syrian arab armi sacrifices. larg part thank except success war terrorism. would also like thank alli friend valuabl support assist nobl fight.",0
2745,"syrian govern alway engag polit process. particip openli talk geneva, consult moscow, meet astana. dealt posit outcom syrian nation dialogu congress sochi, includ format committe discuss constitution. seriou construct convers special envoy syria, leadup format conven constitut committe geneva. hope committe succeed. success, however, possibl extern interfer whatsoev work party. sinc committe form start work, becom master itself. committe decid method work recommendations. whole process z must exclus syrian-l syrian-owned. syrian sole right determin futur country.",0
2746,"israel persist systemat grave violat human right intern humanitarian law syrian golan, occupi sinc 1967. includ settlement construction, racial discrimination, arbitrari detention, torture, loot golan’ natur resources. past years, israel also support terrorist launch repeat attack syrian territories. worth note that, violat continue, so-cal intern commun remain silent. even support israel perpetu occupation. yet anoth sign hypocrisi countri champion human right suit politically.",0
2747,"said, delusion think difficult situat face syria could chang fact golan alway part syria, rest recov fully, border 4 june 1967. issu subject bargaining, blackmailing, statut limitations. illeg isra action us decis chang anyth all. null void carri legal effect intern law relev un resolutions, notabl secur council resolut 497  1981 .",0
2748,"matter principle, syria reiter steadfast support right palestinian peopl establish independ state, jerusalem capital, along line 4 june 1967. refuge must guarante right return homeland keep intern law relev un resolutions. condemn war crime crime human commit israel occupi palestinian territories. hold countri support israel respons implic crimes. decisions, steps, deal run counter relev un resolut violat palestinian right unten void form substance.",0
2749,"syria renew support islam republ iran us polici aim undermin nuclear agreement destabil region. polici reflect us administration’ disregard intern law oblig intern agreements. syria also condemn unjust econom embargo cuba venezuela. stress sovereign right nation must respected, reject form interfer intern affairs.",0
2750,thank you.mr. presid ,0
2751,ladi gentlemen head state deleg ,0
2752,mr. secretary-gener unit nation ,0
2753,"field marshal chad, mr. idriss debi into, presid republic, head state, would like address august assembl person unabl so, instruct deliv follow messag you.",0
2754,"“i would like first congratul presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session, excel ambassador volkan bozkir, whose elect come particularli difficult time covid-19 pandemic, assur country’ full support carri mandate.",0
2755,"“at time, would like express sincer thank excel mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, outgo president, abl carri mission success despit unexpect outbreak pandemic, must impact work agenda.",0
2756,"“allow pay glow tribut excel mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, wise leadership manag crisi throughout challeng period.",0
2757,"“i would like take opportun congratul director- gener world health organization, excel mr. tedro adhanom ghebreyesus, collaborators, remark work fight pandem daili basis. lesson learn pandem provid us opportun rethink health systems. therefore, must adapt term prevent combat occurr pandem future.",0
2759,“excel ,0
2760,"“ladi gentlemen,",0
2764,"“it also occas underlin absolut urgenc strengthen multilater reform global governance, sever test period, view adapt today’ world order better face resolv current futur challenges.",0
2765,"“chad emphas imper need increas intern cooper meaning solidar vulner countries, least-develop countries, landlock develop countri small island develop state promis charter unit nation fulli realiz ultim goal 2030 agenda sustain develop leav one behind becom realiti — anoth broken promise.",0
2768,"“a countri situation, socioeconom situat chad concern. growth current year revis neg  budget deficit increas  sever hundr thousand worker becom offici unemploy  household life significantli affect  macroeconom data 2021 look good. government’ abil implement develop activ eman nation develop plan chad period 2017 2021, main lever implement intern agendas, particular first 10-year implement plan agenda 2063 african union unit nation 2030 agenda sustain development, eroded.",0
2770,"“excellencies,",0
2771,"worth recal that, last year, gener assembl seventy-fourth session, assess progress made enorm gap remain rel fulfil commit made within framework 2030 agenda term end extrem poverty, ensur access qualiti education, combat climat change, reduc inequ ensur inclusion.",0
2772,"“in particular, africa gap financ sustain develop enormous. promis made 2030 agenda sustain develop addi ababa action agenda fulfilled.",0
2773,"“thi moment underscor that, without robust action taken stakeholders, highli like share goal achiev sustain develop goal 2030 agenda met. decad action key translat word action marshal resourc need ramp implement 2030 agenda.",0
2776,"“in view magnitud challeng met present futur multisector needs, chad call outright cancel extern debt african countri success respond covid-19 crisi adequ commit address post- covid-19 socioeconom reconstruct firmer foundation.",0
2779,“but illusions. terrorist threat disappear overnight. continu remain vigil engag secur final restor affect area erad terrorist threat.,0
2780,"“in context, emphas respons combat terror sahel lake chad region also international, struggl part global effort ensur intern peac security.",0
2782,"“if situat sahel improv despit mani initi commit partners, fault lie primarili failur fulfil promis made support g-5 sahel joint forc g-5 sahel prioriti invest programme.",0
2784,"“our state made consider effort despit modest resources. certainli benefit multifacet support bilater multilater partner express sincer gratitude. given magnitud challenges, continu reliabl intern support crucial.",0
2785,“we take opportun call secur council place g-5 sahel joint forc chapter vii un charter order ensur sustain predict financing.,0
2789,"“in light, urgent need implement measur adopt within framework financ fight climat change, particularli aim marshal substanti resourc develop countries, longer doubt.",0
2794,"“with regard situat palestine, chad welcom agreement reach israel unit arab emirates, provides, inter alia, suspens annex certain part west bank.",0
2795,"also welcom agreement state bahrain. chad reaffirm commit two-stat solut within pre-jun 1967 borders, accord relev secur council resolut 2002 arab peac initiative.",0
2796,"“with regard embargo impos cuba, chad reiter call definit lifting.",0
2797,“the un need must meet aspir member states. africa must full place decision-mak organ unit nations. disput un secur council reform seem intermin us challeng urgent requir attention.,0
2798,"“it time justic equiti restor africa. regard, chad remain commit common african posit articul ezulwini consensus.",0
2799,“i wish work everi success.,0
2800,"“thank kind attention.”at outset, would like congratul you, sir, elect presid gener assembl seventy-fifth session. also commend outstand work outgo president, excel mr. tijjani muhammad-bande, contribut advanc organ wisdom leadership difficult time go through. would also like reaffirm confid pay tribut secretary-gener antonio guterr skill pursu share goals.",0
2811,"first all, pleas allow extend sincer congratul you, mr. president, elect presid 75th session gener assembly.",0
2812,year one utmost signific unit nation mark 75th anniversary. organ symbolis solidar cooper inspir world’ human trust uniti purpos member state build peac well-b peopl earth.,0
2814,"so, everi countri must renew trust intern cooperation, must remain steadfast shaken nationalist sentiment antiglob tendencies. instead, motiv us unit one overcom crisi together, sinc proven nation face challeng alone. futur want.",0
2815,"take opportun express thailand’ solidar affect countries. wish patient speedi recovery, medic personnel, public health workers, volunt sector around globe forefront fight covid-19, wish success challeng mission, pleas keep safe.",0
2816,"royal thai govern commit determin control spread covid-19. establish “centr covid-19 situat administration”  ccsa  head take full command aspect pandem control. thailand’ comprehens measur combat covid-19 implement accord intern health regul 2005 world health organization’ guidelines. encompass “upstream, midstream downstream” measur including: health screen risk assess inbound outbound travel  “stay home, save live nation” campaign appli social distanc public space  provis comprehensive, time transpar inform pandem situat strengthen effort combat fake news disinformation.",0
2821,"time hardship, trust countri provid mutual support exhibit solidar region global levels. commend secretarygener call member state show global solidar overcom crisi sustain manner initi establish variou fund assist affect countries. thailand proud contribut “un covid-19 respons recoveri fund”, region level, thailand gratifi leader asean dialogu partner agre thailand’ propos set “covid-19 asean respons fund” address public health emerg support research develop medicin vaccin strengthen asean’ resili long term. indeed, strong asean provid good partner unit nation intern community. moreover, order prepar post-covid scenario respond futur challenges, thailand stand readi cooper countri area food energi secur well sustain development.",0
2822,"effort reviv economy, thailand launch “stop covid, thai economy” polici embrac new busi model “bio- circular-green economy” “bcg” place emphasi bioeconomy, circular economy, green economy. thailand also appli concept suffici economi philosophi  sep , recogn local driven approach toward sustainability, build strength within, connect thailand world, move forward leav one behind.",0
2824,"throughout 75 year membership unit nations, thailand continu consist play construct role, adher intern oblig respect principl un charter.",0
2825,"peac security, 75 years, unit nation intern commun recogn success peac disput settlement, well provid assist popul post-conflict areas. part, apart strong commit disarmament, 27,000 thai military, polic civilian personnel proudli serv 20 un peac mission around world sinc 1958. thailand’ contribut peac oper continu amidst current pandem crisis. thai peacekeep attach import sustain peac agenda introduc suffici economi philosophi  sep  develop approach address root caus conflict prevent recurrence, line sdg 16  peace, justic strong institut . furthermore, would like reiter commit strengthen cooper friendli countri enhanc asean’ construct role maintain peac secur region. occasion, wish thank member state support thailand’ candidatur member peacebuild commiss term 2021-2022 wish affirm thailand intend discharg duti member commiss benefit intern community.",0
2827,"co-host global south-south develop expo 2021 bangkok next year, togeth unit nation offic south-south cooper econom social commiss asia pacific, member ecosoc, stand readi share experi best practic sustain develop guid principl suffici economi philosophi  sep .",0
2829,"year mark 25th anniversari adopt beij declar platform action gender equality. part, thailand continu drive implement beij declar integr cross-cut issu realiz gender equality, women’ empowerment, women’ rights.",0
2832,"thank you.your excel mr. president, excel mr. secretary-general, ladi gentlemen!",0
2833,outset great delight extend heartfelt congratul mr.volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly.,0
2837,applaud commit prais effort state develop anti- covid vaccine.,0
2838,"much hope access state vaccin producer-countri initi suppli certain amount vaccin humanitarian aid cover vulner group countries, priorit women, children elderli people.",0
2839,"covid-19 outbreak signific impact republ tajikistan, becom matter deep concern.",0
2841,"prestigi intern organ assess consequ coronaviru spread ongo process, would definit advers impact global economi development.",0
2842,situat pose countless unpreced challeng front tajikistan’ development.,0
2844,tajikistan mountain landlock countri possess suffici amount oil ga resources.,0
2845,"meantime, depend import fuel almost hundr percent, well import good products, includ food pharmaceut eighti nineti per cent accordingly.",0
2846,"accord preliminari estimations, due neg impact extern econom factors, total damag tajikistan’ economi year would amount $2 billion like number may increas future.",0
2848,crystal clear advanc construct process possibl last stabil overal safeti secured.,0
2849,"par unpreced wave covid-19 nowaday expans scale intens terror extremism, arm conflict wars, transnat organ crime, includ traffick narcot modern threat challeng remain alarming.",0
2852,"along this, view, particular import elabor new effect mean common fight terrorism, includ mean state-of-the-art technology, cooper coordin among relev secur author member states.",0
2854,tajikistan convinc respons grow threat terror must all-embrac unit nation play key coordin role process.,0
2855,"tajikistan locat frontlin address secur threat challeng made determin continu make invalu contribut counter terror extremism, fight transnat organ crime, includ tackl drug trafficking.",0
2856,"end, maintain foster product cooper partner intern organizations, particular relev un agencies.",0
2857,develop present implement share initi alreadi yield notic results.,0
2858,current two nation strategi — first counter-terror extrem second counter-narcot traffick final phase implement country.,0
2860,believ necessari compli rule implement provis relev gener accept treati conventions.,0
2861,"regard, tajikistan sustain fruit cooper relev unit nation agenc region organizations, commonwealth independ states, shanghai cooper organ collect secur treati organization.",0
2862,also establish product bilater cooper relationship partner countries.,0
2864,"accordingly, necessari strengthen prevent activity’ dimens un, includ improv region center prevent diplomaci central asia.",0
2866,tajikistan hail unit nation peacekeep oper strive contribut promot process extent possible.,0
2867,"polic forc involv un peacekeep oper darfur, south sudan citi abyei sudan.",0
2868,commit continu cooper area relev unit nation bodies.,0
2870,much hope tajikistan’ initi encourag member-st give support candidacy.,0
2871,"tajikistan share almost 1,400 km. border afghanistan.",0
2872,"therefor give utmost attent military, polit socioeconom situat close extend neighbor country.",0
2874,"state time again, afghan case militari solut tajikistan inde welcom peace-build negoti process support approach aim address polit crisi country.",0
2875,"destini futur afghanistan first foremost led own afghan peopl belief firm stabil situat countri achiev afghan-led, afghan-own afghan- control peacebuild process.",0
2876,tajikistan year presid “the heart asia - istanbul process” presid strive increas genuin effici platform.,0
2877,day tajikistan contribut implement sever joint region project afghanistan.,0
2878,built power transmiss line construct six transboundari bridges.,0
2879,stand readi advanc cooper would help activ involv afghanistan region integr process facilit socio-econom recovery.,0
2880,"implement project highway connect two countries’ construct power transmiss lines, particularli casa-1000 jointli countri region, profession train afghan specialist differ sector among area cooper sustain commit promote.",0
2881,ten year left end 2030 agenda sustain develop goals.,0
2882,intern commun made signific progress direct past five years.,0
2884,"repercuss covid-19 also neg affect country, one proactiv member global commun implement 2030 agenda.",0
2885,would like recal tajikistan one first countri adopt 2030 nation develop strategi line 2030 agenda.,0
2886,countri present nation voluntari report back 2017 introduc progress achiev toward sustain develop goals.,0
2888,"give utmost import climat chang challenges, process pose seriou hardship nations, includ tajikistan.",0
2889,"past sixti years, averag annual temperatur tajikistan increas one degree.",0
2890,"result increas number day heavi precipit intens natur hydro-meteorolog phenomena, year year affect countri throughout world.",0
2892,natur disast often caus casualties.,0
2893,area glacier locat countri essenti central asia notic reduc recent decades.,0
2894,one thousand thirteen thousand glacier locat tajikistan mountain melt away far.,0
2895,happen although sixti percent central asia’ water resourc accumul territori tajikistan.,0
2897,"situat caus neg impact quantiti qualiti safe drink water, well water-rel sectors, particularli agricultur energy.",0
2898,"connect circumstance, countri region concern shift hydrolog cycle.",0
2900,"tajikistan gener nineti nine percent electr hydro-electr power stations, renew ‘green’ energi sources.",0
2901,countri among less carbon dioxid emitt world.,0
2902,"context, wish offer follow propos toward seek way address climat change, previous introduc intern fora:",0
2904,2.	comprehens support donor countri intern region financi institut implement nation strategi program adapt climat change.,0
2905,"3.	reinforc regular monitor gener water resources, especi glaciers.",0
2906,4.	strengthen intern cooper protect water resourc implement tajikistan’ propos establish intern glacier preserv fund.,0
2908,hope intern partner support step tajikistan undertak forward areas.,0
2909,unit nation acknowledg tajikistan initi champion countri advanc water agenda.,0
2910,"countri author major unit nations’ initi resolut water, includ “the intern decad action “water sustain development” 2018 - 2028”.",0
2912,tajikistan’ resolut entitl “comprehens mid-term review intern decad action “water sustain development” 2018-2028 adopt 2018 enrich global water agenda.,0
2913,"resolut along import goal objectives, call conven unit",0
2914,"nation confer comprehens mid-term review intern decad action “water sustain development”, 2018-2028 new york march 2023.",0
2915,event valu import initi term support toward implement decad conduct high-level polit forum sustain development.,0
2916,"worth recal last un confer water held yet 1977 mar de plata, argentina.",0
2917,mean unit nation host water confer 46 years.,0
2918,"confid claim unit nation member states, un special agenc organ demonstr grow interest utmost attent decad action “water sustain development” nation alreadi express willing host region preparatori meetings.",0
2919,"regretfully, spread ofcovid-19 affect plan schedul event postponed.",0
2920,"hope victori coronaviru pandemic, stakehold countries, along tajikistan, abl take full advantag opportun conven event scheduled.",0
2921,"conclusion, would like draw attent unit nation member state draft resolut propos tajikistan un confer comprehens mid-term review implement intern decad action “water sustain development”, 2018-2028.",0
2922,decid review resolut un gener assembl session.,0
2923,"would like encourag distinguish deleg support initiative, like gener support previou resolutions.",0
2924,thank kind attention!dear mr. president!,0
2925,dear mr. secretari general!,0
2926,"first all, let congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl wish success respons position.",0
2927,would like ask mr. tijjani muhammad-band accept sincer gratitud abl effect work presid gener assembl 74th session.,0
2928,dear participants!,0
2929,ladi gentlemen!,0
2930,want start speech word deep sorrow hundr thousand peopl surviv coronaviru pandemic.,0
2932,eye focus hope faith scientist research work vaccin drug stop pandemic. address gratitud willing provid possibl support import mission.,0
2934,dear mr. president!,0
2936,countri establish close intern cooper bilater format intern organ time.,0
2937,"first all, note turkmenistan close cooper unit nations. context, fulli support call appeal un secretari gener made statement march 23 30 year.",0
2939,"turkmenistan continu longstand effect partnership world health organ time. highli appreci role fight coronavirus. recommend shown valid countri serv import guidelin activ medic institutions. continu expand concret cooper world health organ bring systematic, long-term level.",0
2942,"particular, aegi who, consid appropriate:",0
2943,-	to establish special programm world health organ research,0
2944,coronaviru genom ,0
2945,-	to develop multilater mechan pneumonia control ,0
2946,-	establish methodolog center treatment prevent acut,0
2947,infections.,0
2948,readi meaning commun implement initi interest countri intern structures.,0
2951,issu cooper transport sphere less urgent.,0
2952,"one initi wide intern commun transport issues, turkmenistan propos consid issu ensur stabl intern transport emerg situations. prepar correspond draft resolut gener assembl submit consider un member states.",0
2953,believ intern confer minist landlock develop countri plan turkmenistan next year effect platform develop coordin approach problem.,0
2955,distinguish head member delegations!,0
2958,"obviously, work way, substanti work done un, intern organ provid assist intern fund save aral sea. thank highli appreci work.",0
2960,"would like underlin import un gener assembl resolut “on cooper unit nation intern fund save aral sea” adopt initi countri april 2018 may 2019. today, resolut repres platform consolid joint effort aral sea area.",0
2961,turkmenistan present initi draft concept structur futur special programm aral sea framework escap session may 2021 mean develop intern legal foundat address aral sea issue. call upon state interest intern organ discuss documents.,0
2962,distinguish participants!,0
2963,"current gener assembl session take place amid complex pain event relat escal militari polit rivalri unfortun wit today. assess event caus effect relationship may differ. certain that, neg affect overal intern situation, erod global secur foundat imped economic, trade humanitarian relations.",0
2965,restor trust intern polit establish cultur respect dialogu way achiev objective.,0
2966,"known, initi turkmenistan un gener assembl adopt septemb last year resolut declar year 2021 year intern peac trust. turkmenistan put forward initi organ intern forum peac trust next year implement provis resolution. strongli believ that, forum abl give strong impetu construct respect multilater dialogu press subject modern global agenda.",0
2967,"year turkmenistan mark signific date history. 25th anniversari moment countri institution statu perman neutral intern commun un 12 december, 1995.",0
2968,"neutral one foundat statehood, intern foreign polici quarter century. principl neutrality, valu ideolog proven full complianc nation interest un object tasks.",0
2969,un gener assembl larg number member state becam co-author initi unanim declar 12 decemb intern day neutrality.,0
2970,"neutral turkmenistan appeal condit equitable, respect mutual benefici intern partnership politics, economi environ protection, ensur overal food security, fair effect distribut natur resourc planet, support assist refugees, migrant stateless peopl address mani press issu modern world.",0
2971,"turkmenistan’ neutral lofti mission peacemak states’ readi particip solv issu emerg global region dimens peaceful, political, diplomat tool methods.",0
2972,"prevent diplomaci signific function integr part turkmenistan’ neutrality. highli symbol unit nation region centr prevent diplomaci central asia establish decis gener assembl support neighbor state secur council member ashgabat, capit citi neutral turkmenistan 2007.",0
2976,"known, countri consist work direct initi construct ga pipelin along turkmenistan afghanistan-pakistan-india route, well railroad fiber-opt commun line access territori afghanistan, alreadi enter stage practic implementation. call intern community, busi structures, financi institut becom activ involv work.",0
2977,"un remain import prioriti partner country. check step intern arena spirit letter un charter. today, turkmenistan respons declar unshak adher great ideal lie un’ foundat year 75th anniversari unit nations. convinc ideals, valu principl un remain relevant. unit nation remain intern organ univers legitimacy.",0
2979,"thank attention!mr.	presid the	unit nation gener assembly,",0
2980,"wish reiter deep appreci pronounc secretary-gener high commission human rights, michel bachelet, demand immedi lift unilater crimin coerciv measures, contrari unit nation charter, clear obstacl impos affect countri adequ address covid-19 pandem complianc sustain develop goals.",0
2982,"likewise, recent captur american spi war weapon document relat oil electr industry. daili sieg facing, dismantling, denouncing, unveil one one.",0
2983,"ask myself: terrorist action qualifi midst extraordinari humanitarian circumst one live covid-19 pandemic? human qualifi it? least say excess imposed, terribl sin seem taken complet north american elites.",0
2984,"bolivarian republ venezuela reiter need vindic principl respect sovereignty, self-determin peoples, express unit nation charter, unit us all, whose illeg violat member state organization, motiv ignobl reasons, endang stabil countri latin-caribbean region.",0
2986,"wish endors word unit nation secretary-gener antonio guterres, ceasefir cessat conflict world, reiter unrestrict respect full adher purpos principl unit nation charter intern law, particular, respect sovereignty, territori integr non-interfer intern affair states, dialogu among nations, peac resolut disput prohibit threat use forc such.",0
2988,"nevertheless, present, countri face experienc wave voluntary, massiv return thousand venezuelan migrants, countri high level covid-19 infections, colombia, ecuador, peru, chile, brazil, motiv differ reasons, import failur covid-19 manag countries. secondly, systemat violat human right venezuelan migrants, anachronist xenophob polici migrant country, includ high level govern countri  discrimination, mistreatment, lack socio-econom conditions, situat semi-slavery, human trafficking, calam migrant suffer clear violat human dignity. reaction world - wonder - say concern venezuela face reprehens facts: complicit silence.",0
2990,"sake reconcili compli agreement reach nation dialogu tabl venezuelan polit forces, septemb 2019, seri measur adopt benefit guarante democraci venezuela. recently, 110 citizen belong right-w opposit group pardon prosecut sever crime relat aggress country. decision, seek continu build path toward nation reconciliation, understand peac deserv effort cease, mr. president, commit task.",0
2991,"faith complianc provis establish nation constitution, approv referendum venezuelan peopl decemb 1999, 25th democrat elect 20 year held next sunday, decemb 6th, 2020. time, renew legisl power, particip 14,400 candidates, 107 polit organ entir nation ideolog spectrum.",0
2993,"even so, govern washington, led peopl collaps pandem — which, way, hold presidenti elect next november, blatant violat intern law, illeg impos new unilater coerciv measur venezuelan democrat institutions, case, elector power, tri interfer conduct parliamentari elect provid constitution. why, bolivarian republ venezuela reiter need vindic principl respect sovereignti self determin peoples, express unit nation charter, whose illeg violat member state organ intend lead venezuela violenc conflict. allow it. demand respect. venezuelan path peace, democracy, freedom, vote, particip protagon people. been, be.",0
2994,"author world,",0
2995,"venezuela standing. histor dignity, peace. readi new challeng  readi new victories. bid farewell, wish union, peac cooper whole world.",0
2996,"thank much.your excel volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly,",0
2997,"excel antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations,",0
2998,"would like congratul excel volkan bozkir upon elect presid 75th unit nation gener assembly. fulli confid experienc abl leadership, session success.",0
2999,"let also voic appreci import contribut excel tijjani muhammad-bande, presid 74th session unit nation gener assembly, secretary-gener antonio guterr made despit tremend challeng pose covid-19 pandemic.",0
3000,celebr 75th anniversari unit nation enter third decad 21st centuri extraordinari circumstances.,0
3001,"first time history, leader member state unabl gather unga gener debat . this, however, diminish resolv abil deliber seek solut issu common concern.",0
3002,"echo secretary-general’ assess face formid challeng sinc birth un, particular, impact covid-19 pandem economy, society, polit and, all, human life.",0
3003,"backdrop, welcom theme session: “the futur want, un need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism— confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. allow share thought along line.",0
3007,"seventy-f year ago, 2 septemb 1945, presid ho chi minh deliv declar independ proclaim birth democrat republ viet nam  socialist republ viet nam . sinc earli days, presid ho chi minh, multipl occasions, sent letter found member un, express viet nam’ desir becom member organization. 1977 aspir becam reality, long tenaci struggl viet nam win defend nation independence, sovereignti territori integr serv concret contribut worldwid movement peace, democraci social progress — ultim nobl goal un aspires. let take occasion, behalf vietnames people, express deepest gratitud countri intern friend gener support toward past righteou struggl nation independ present nation development.",0
3008,"viet nam poor backward countri ravag war, strangl embargo. thirty-f year doi moi reform, viet nam emerg middle-incom develop countri aim high-incom industri countri 2045. fight covid-19, difficulti notwithstanding, viet nam record posit noteworthi outcomes. success contain pandem promot social econom development. intern solidar understand pandem defeat win, viet nam engag cooper experi share mani countries, includ support provid worst affect pandem common intern efforts.",0
3010,"non-perman member unit nation secur council term 2020-2021, viet nam promot dialogue, de-escal tension confrontation, fair reason solut region global peac secur issues. champion multilater respect intern law un charter, strengthen relat un region organizations, especi asean.",0
3011,"2020 asean chair, viet nam work fellow member state build region peace, friendship cooperation, order realiz vision asean polit cohesive, econom integr social respons community. togeth countri within outsid region, commit mainten promot peace, stability, maritim secur safeti freedom navig east sea  south china sea , accord intern law, particularli 1982 unit nation convent law sea. call concern parti exercis restraint, avoid unilater act would complic situation, settl disput differ peac mean due respect diplomat legal processes.",0
3013,thank kind attention.mr. presid ,0
3014,"excellencies, head state govern  mr. secretary-gener ",0
3015,distinguish deleg ,0
3016,great honour deliv address behalf govern peopl republ vanuatu.,0
3018,"would also like extend heartfelt gratitud excel tijjani muhammad-bande, outgo presid 74th session outstand stewardship august bodi challeng time.",0
3019,global challeng,0
3020,"usually, would gather icon gener assembl hall share thought state world share. corridors, meet room side event would abuzz activ leader deleg come together. time uncertainti peril, could benefit gatherings, cannot so.",0
3023,"seen sever impact vulner communities, especi women girls, peopl disabilities, chronic health conditions.",0
3024,"must unit defeat scourg disease. govern need abl continu reach help famili split kept apart, allevi consequ job loss busi closur continu provid health care enorm strain pandem management, deal drastic plummet revenu sources.",0
3026,"worrisom complex global challeng compound time multilater environ sever pressur date. make mistake, need inclus multilateralism. global solidar concert intern cooper forg today make us stronger tackl challeng together. time crisi heighten mutual respons strengthen people’ faith multilater cooper intern institutions. unit nations, univers membership, play central role address share challenges. focus effort strengthen it, weaken it. unit nation compar big boat individu nation occupi individu cabin big boat.",0
3027,domest develop challeng,0
3028,"small open island economi locat south pacific, vanuatu know well import global solidarity. know experi alway better work together, isolation.",0
3030,"spirit came togeth nation juli celebr 40th anniversari polit independence. come togeth decemb mark graduat least develop countri status. amidst uncertainti chaos, special year us. especi view graduat success story. alway warmli embrac solidar ldc group, support afford it. 40th year independ countri readi next phase develop journey. readi make step despit catastroph unleash pandem cyclone, reverber mani year come.",0
3031,"proud achievements, mind still long way go achiev sustain develop goals. would rather build effort develop partner graduat now, extend smooth transit period risk slip back ldc categori halt graduat entirely. reason seek support bilateral, region multilater develop trade partner provid full support implement smooth transit strategi prepar vanuatu, particular, prioriti specif measur requir target support extend transitionari period five year  specif intern support measur relat trade, aid trade particip intern forums.",0
3034,"build back better also mean longer accept busi usual would like suggest area we, unit nations, focu forg new path collect brighter future.",0
3036,"second, climat financ need increas ensur recapit financi instrument green climat fund. again, call process access fund simplifi made easier access order allow small island develop state like vanuatu implement climat chang mitig adapt prioriti reflect variou framework implement includ nation determin contribut  ndc .",0
3037,"thirdly, un need find way address de risk measur adopt larg intern bank prevent small island develop state especi set correspond bank relationship domest banks.",0
3039,human right decolonis,0
3040,"look ahead futur want, must pictur world freedom  one free persecut human right abuses. year, countri celebr 40th anniversari independence, remind strong cultur connect umaenupn umaeneag islands, commonli refer english matthew hunter islands. although integr part vanuatu coloni period, franc regrett unlaw claim own. beyond repres failur complet decolon vanuatu, france’ action imped abil ni-vanuatu peopl perform traditional, cultur religi practic islands. particular concern maintain people’ cultur heritag greatest import ni-vanuatu people, endur long unfortun histori coloni exploitation. although ni-vanuatu consid umaenupn umaeneag sacred, particularli great signific come island tanna, futuna aneiytum. countless generations, indigen peopl island perform sacr ritual them. day, umaenupn umaeneag continu maintain central place religi observ people. look forward return islands, facilit former un special rapporteur right indigen peoples.",0
3041,"furthermore, also mind territori continu struggl freedom.",0
3042,"region, new caledonia soon face anoth referendum question independence. import remain free, fair transpar continu supervis unit nations.",0
3043,"know widespread human right violat happen around us, yet seem world take select approach address these. region, indigen peopl west papua continu suffer human right abuses. last year, leader pacif island forum respect call indonesian govern allow unit nation offic human right commission visit west papua province. date littl progress front. therefor call indonesian govern pleas heed previou call pacif leaders.",0
3044,conclus,0
3046,ever multilater must defend respond evolv need times. un charter remain moral compass continu remind us common duti serv humanity.,0
3047,"thank mr presid god bless all.mr. president,",0
3048,ladi gentlemen.,0
3049,"gener assembl session year histor unique. commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, gener assembl meet virtual first time ever. unpreced time call innov solut leader remain connect unit fight covid-19 pandem desir secur peac world.",0
3050,"celebr un mileston allow samoa reflect journey unit nations. unit nation almost 60 year ago, abli facilit peoples’ aspir sovereign state found democrat principles, christian belief cultur values. upon attain independ januari 1962, join un almost 15 year later felt confid prepar assum role global citizen depend member unit nations.",0
3051,"membership firmli root belief sovereign equal member states, ground promis hope justic unit nation offers, irrespect economic, polit militari strength.",0
3052,"commit multilater unit nation repres last bastion challeng uncertainti beset world: pandem econom crises, climat chang system discrimination, endem poverti danger threat peac security. need balanc power among un member well respons represent people. would set scene partnership bear promis future.",0
3054,"pacif sids, samoa continu particip contribut activ global effort address challeng affect development, secur human right pillar unit nations.",0
3058,"futur want, un need?",0
3060,"tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding, deadli bush fires, heat wave drought continu take devast countless lives. heighten occurr catastroph climatic-rel disast world attest must act absolut urgenc even wake pandemic. climat procrastin must end window close chanc us stabilis earth’ climate.",0
3061,"critic meet unfccc cop26, cbd cop15 2020 un ocean confer postponed. howev equat defer ambiti actions. need uphold pari agreement commit maintain need momentum ambiti climat action.",0
3063,"must mobilis leader governments, ngos, privat sector empow youth rural commun fight ongo threat climat chang unit environment degradation. 75th anniversari un point hope gener come rather end due legaci selfishness, denial ignorance. small island state like samoa face brunt impact climat change, countri immun reach climat change.",0
3064,"want futur peac societies, free conflict nuclear weapons.",0
3066,"condemn intern terror unreservedly. membership disarma non-prolifer conventions, continu urg world without weapon mass destruction, includ total elimin nuclear weapons. contribut peac societi worldwid polic offic serv un peacekeep mission countri requir assistance.",0
3067,welcom recent uae- isra ‘abraham accord’ new develop secur peac settlement middl east durabl fair. also commend “secretary-general’ appeal global ceasefire” pandem end plagu war instead fight diseas ravag world.,0
3068,mr presid,0
3069,"samoa present second voluntari nation review implement sustain develop goal high-level polit forum year. also repres samoa sdg moment event last week. applaud initi take forward decis 2019 sdg summit put us world leader driver’ seat begin decad action, deliv sdg 2030.",0
3072,"year, samoa host 84th session un committe right child, histor first. mileston event consist samoa’ ongo effort improv strengthen engag treati parti treati bodies. also ensur effect activ particip engag pacif people, especi children, convent work committee. samoa encourag treati bodi imit crc’ example. also follow close work reform un human right treati bodi system.",0
3073,"rule law vital protect offer states, especi weak small, need respect commit alway uphold it. also commit advanc gender equal empower women girls, stipul beij declar platform action. samoa continu look initi partnership eu un “spotlight initiative” support effort elimin form violenc women girls.",0
3074,let conclud reflect un need.,0
3075,"wit posit outcom reform undertaken far, reassur us un respond effect need divers membership. look forward posit impact un develop system reform promis improv un presenc pacif region establish multi-countri offic northern pacif states. hope enhanc effect un engag reinvigor resid coordin system  expect integr focus deliveri ground, inform prioriti need member states. samoa acknowledg valuabl contribut un multi-countri offic samoa dedic staff continu collabor us pacific, better live improv livelihood option peopl nations.",0
3077,"larg ocean state sids, samoa need unit nation produc legal bind instrument conserv sustain use marin biolog divers area beyond nation jurisdict  bbnj . un continu recognis uniqu vulner sid impact climat chang ensur effect implement samoa pathway.",0
3078,"commit advanc uniti common good common prosperity, abil lie uniqueness. unit nation becom foremost forum address issu transcend nation boundaries. unit nation place understand uniqu cultures, respect differ belief embrac differ unit build futur want genuin durabl partnership. god bless un family. soifuain name god merci compassionate,",0
3079,"excellency, presid unit nation gener assembly,",0
3080,"would like outset sincer congratul presid unit nation gener assembl seventy-fifth session wish continu success endeavours. would also like express sincer thank gratitud unit nation secretary-general, antonio guterres, effort lead organ toward play role protect intern peac secur realiz nobl mission. reflect peopl countries, includ republ yemen.",0
3081,"unit nations, thankfully, spare effort reach last peac yemen, sought tirelessli address challeng facing, particular humanitarian challenges.",0
3082,"honour also sincer congratul great peopl yemen, live countri live abroad, celebr gloriou etern yemeni revolut septemb october. coincid gener debat unit nation gener assembly.",0
3089,"intern commun must play role end houthi arrog people’ suffering. must exert effect decis pressur putschist sponsor tehran ensur implement secur council resolut refrain bloodletting, sow destruct give access humanitarian assist yemenis.",0
3090,"would also like take opportun speak world shed light suffer patient people, endur tragedi tortur kind amid difficult live condit putschists’ war. thank brothers, friends, organ donor countri effort support. unabl escap blackmail, constraint sieg attempt mitig multifacet suffer yemeni peopl war continues. econom challeng increase, addit obstacl face govern state institut attempt discharg duti provid citizen servic restor normalci liber areas.",0
3094,"conclusion, hope session successful, unit nation advanc effect effort support humankind realiz happiness. hope unit nation resolut help us meet major challeng us. wish develop prosper member state populations. also wish happiness, well-b prosper humankind whole.",0
3095,"may peac god’ merci bless upon you.presid gener assembly, secretary-general, excellencies, ladi gentlemen, seventy-f year ago, unit nation establish introduc new world order achiev peac world. dawn new era global cooperation, forg aftermath one darkest period histori humankind.",0
3096,"1945, world crisis. count devast wrought war, devast plunder. today, throe anoth crisi — coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandemic. build common inclus futur aftermath covid-19, solidar must endure. word nelson mandela: “it human solidarity, concern other, must centr valu live.”",0
3099,"secretary-gener antonio guterr deliv 18th nelson mandela annual lectur juli 2020, call nation world forg new social contract new global deal.",0
3100,"said must creat equal opportun all, must advanc inclus balanc multilater trade system, debt architectur must reformed, greater access afford credit develop countries.",0
3101,call south africa wholli endorse.,0
3102,"spirit new global deal, call intern commun intern partner support rollout comprehens stimulu packag africa.",0
3103,enabl african countri mitig health impact covid-19 aid us immens task rebuild shatter economies.,0
3105,"african union encourag collabor g20, imf, world bank un toward find solut debt sustain develop countries.",0
3106,"pandem highlight urgenc must strive meet sustain develop goals, importantli goal 1 — end poverti form everywhere.",0
3107,"erad global poverty, alway fall short realis vision founder unit nation .",0
3108,"must expand econom opportun people, especi young, women vulner persons.",0
3109,must boldli pursu avenu redistribut redress mean advanc share prosperity.,0
3110,must deal decis rot corrupt rob peopl opportun servic right.,0
3111,"together, must rais level ambit ensur everi man, woman child equal chanc better future.",0
3112,"futur free hunger, disease, insecur war.",0
3113,"world affirm digniti worth all, regardless race, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religi affili social circumstances.",0
3115,"countri known well anguish institutionalis racism, south africa support demand swift action racism, whether commit individuals, companies, offici state.",0
3116,south africa call unit nation spare effort end prejudic intoler form wherev may found.,0
3117,word dr martin luther king jr:,0
3118,“injustic anywher threat justic everywhere.”,0
3119,"mark 25th anniversari adopt beij platform action, must intensifi effort empow women girls. right women girl full equal particip workplace, polit life decision-making, economy, obtain educ societi whole.",0
3120,south africa proud member un’ gener equal campaign prioritis erad gender base violenc femicide.,0
3121,"continent level, work finalis adopt au convent violenc women cours year.",0
3122,"au member state engag measur promot financi inclusion, preferenti procur preferenti trade agreement women.",0
3123,african countri continu effort ‘silenc guns’ conflict resolut peace-building.,0
3125,imper collabor institutionalis financ au peacekeep oper address resolved.,0
3126,south africa current serv second year elect non-perman member unit nation secur council.,0
3128,current composit secur council reflect world live.,0
3129,"75th anniversari un repeat call greater represent african countri secur council,and taken urgenc intergovernment negotiations.",0
3131,"celebr found organis dedic freedom equality, peopl palestin western sahara continu live occupation.",0
3132,repeat call end illeg occup western sahara palestinian people’ right self-determination.,0
3133,call lift econom embargo blockad cuba.,0
3134,choic work togeth address climat chang crisis.,0
3135,"rebuild aftermath pandem opportun place global economi low-carbon, climat resili development path.",0
3137,"global recoveri effort must place climat chang adaptation, mitig support centr — line pari agreement multilater environment commitments.",0
3138,"founder un stood crossroad 1945, 75 year later.",0
3139,answer history’ call craft new order world crisis.,0
3140,"today battl fire deadli pandemic, racism prejudice, violence, war extrem and, all, poverti inequality.",0
3141,"order seek build must root solidarity, equal uniti purpose.",0
3142,coronaviru pandem present us choice.,0
3143,choic global cooper envisag un charter pursuit narrow self-interest unilateralism.,0
3144,choic toler prejudice.,0
3145,choic econom justic grow inequality.,0
3146,path choos determin collect destiny.,0
3147,"though face daunt prospects, dispos potent force.",0
3148,solidar friendship upon unit nation founded.,0
3149,"histori faith record global respons worst health emerg century, let said stood act one, provid leadership, gave peopl nation hope courage.",0
3150,"best, fitting, legaci 75th session action gave true mean term ‘unit nations’.",0
3152,may cooper deepen may solidar endure.,0
3153,"let us make sure effort leav woman, child man behind, nation left behind.",0
3154,"excel mr. volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembl ",0
3155,"secretary-gener unit nations, antonio guterr ",0
3156,distinguish head state govern ,0
3157,honour minist ,0
3158,head intergovernment organis ,0
3159,distinguish ladi gentlemen.,0
3160,let join previou speaker congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir assumpt presid 75th regular session unit nation gener assembly.,0
3161,optimist excellency’ wealth knowledg experi diplomat parliamentarian inde serv us well 75th session.,0
3162,wish also extend zambia’ sincer appreci excel prof. tijjani muhammad-band abl leadership 74th session.,0
3163,"theme session, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action” present us opportun evalu exist multilater approach address challeng affect peoples.",0
3165,"circumstances, opportun manifest need maximis compar advantages, well share expertise, innov indigen knowledg utilis better people’ livelihoods. remain confid concert effort uniti purpose, togeth conquer pandem global scale.",0
3166,post-coronaviru landscap requir urgent action guarante recoveri lay solid foundat better world.,0
3167,"accordingly, zambia support call major intervent as:   debt relief cancel develop member state   ii  enhanc collabor research vaccin cure covid-19   iii  mobilis resourc local intern community.",0
3170,"2015, member un pledg leav one behind shift world onto path sustain develop prosper all. commit inde still aliv us.",0
3171,"although road us laden challenges, neither waiver, surrend cynic acceler implement 2030 agenda sustain development.",0
3172,"part, govern republ zambia, work close key stakehold privat sector civil societi develop nation sdg coordin framework guid implementation, monitor report sdg integr country’ nation develop plan.",0
3173,zambia remain support intern effort aim peac resolut conflict advocaci support shown peacekeep missions. zambia remain activ player peacekeep peacebuild oper region.,0
3174,"regard, would like urg unit nation remain resolut duti protect vulner persons, redoubl effort bring peac world. bedrock un foundation, espous charter.",0
3176,"thank you.your excellency, ambassador volkan bozkir, presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly,",0
3177,"majesties,",0
3178,"excellencies, fellow head state government,",0
3179,"excellency, mr. antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nations,",0
3180,"allow first congratul you, ambassador volkan bozkir elect presid 75 th session gener assembly. zimbabw confid abl stewardship, gener assembl profici address challeng present face organ world.",0
3181,"also wish convey sincer gratitud presid 74th session assembly, professor tijjani muhamad-bande, skill execut respons tenure.",0
3183,"theme 75th session, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action”, therefor apt appropriate.",0
3184,today human crossroad confront complex challeng respect borders.,0
3185,multilater increas threat blind pursuit narrow interests. must therefor strengthen intern amiti goodwil well uphold mutual respect observ sovereign equal states.,0
3187,"however, administr continu record notabl achiev toward sustain develop leav one behind. macro- econom stabil reform seen reduct budget deficit singl digit, well posit balanc current account, coupl foreign exchang rate price stability.",0
3188,"major infrastructur project ongoing, rehabilit construct health servic facilities, water sanit infrastructur well roads, dam bridg across country. invest mining, agriculture, tourism, energi manufactur sector increase.",0
3190,"similarly, administr decis entrench constitutionalism, democraci rule law, includ protect properti rights. commit govern cardin principl remain unwavering. spirit line constitut juli year, govern conclud landmark global compens deed, former farm owners. count support goodwil intern commun mobil resourc implement agreement.",0
3191,"align law constitut almost complete, new piec legisl continu enact strengthen institutions. raft polit reform benefit gener zimbabwean consolid respect human rights.",0
3192,"administr place great import foster nation uniti cohesion. cultur dialogu across sector take root, activ programm auspic homegrown polit actor dialogu  polad , gain momentum.",0
3193,"recently, un secretari gener  high commission human right  special rapporteur right food, acknowledg deleteri effect illeg econom sanction country. breach intern law compromis zimbabwe’ capac implement achiev sustain develop especi sdg 2, 3, 8, 9 17. we, therefore, call gener assembl strongli pronounc unilater illeg sanctions.",0
3195,"zimbabw welcom call un secretari gener director gener who, dr. tedro ghebreyesus, covid-19 vaccin treat global public good guarante fair distribut mechan ensur equal access.",0
3196,"encourag ongo cooper un secretari general, g20 bretton wood institut toward find solut develop countrys’ debt relat issues. world bank intern monetari fund support debt standstil end year, need done.",0
3197,"commit partner implement 2030 agenda sustain development, zimbabw welcom launch decad action. spirit, host 6th africa region forum sustain develop victoria fall februari 2020, adopt victoria fall declar decad action sustain develop africa.",0
3198,"move forward, believ strengthen public health systems, intern solidar partnership critical.",0
3200,"15 year sinc adopt ezulwini consensus, reaffirm sirt declaration. deepli regrett reform secur council implement africa’ posit achieved. cannot continu situat 16 per cent world’ popul voic decis making. seriou indict avow commit multilater basic principl natur justice, fair equity.",0
3201,"peace, secur stabil pre-requisit sustain development. achiev inclus process character equal share commit responsibilities. count intern commun strengthen support au-l peac efforts. also look forward greater collabor au un maintain sustain intern peac secur accord chapter viii charter unit nations, particularli ensur effect implement au’ campaign “silenc guns”.",0
3202,self-determin independ intrins fundament right enjoy without distinction. call secur council increas effort toward end occup western sahara.,0
3203,zimbabw also call upon secretary-gener appoint person envoy western sahara without delay.,0
0,"fear insecur seiz people, health system weaken socio-econom fabric total shaken, caus loss million jobs. march 21, first posit case confirm country. first state emerg decreed, citizen alreadi took action.",1
0,"presid republic, strict agreement government, took advantag impact covid-19 establish econom recoveri plan, center people, reactiv nation economy, measur short, medium long term. mean stop loss job income.",1
0,"despit cruelty, pandem given us opportun increasingli awar import sustain develop goal 2030 agenda.",1
0,"global cooper partnerships, region nation levels, crucial build resilient, sustain inclus world.",1
0,"also spirit contribut peac stabil region, context challeng state face concern insert region find itself, countri commit process join asean, region block 600 million inhabitants.",1
0,disrespect natur caus climat chang neg impact humankind. destruct ecosystem biodivers link new diseas covid-19 illustration.,1
0,"thus, timor-lest believ pari agreement climat chang sustain develop goal embodi essenti mean issu road reconstruct countries. develop famili farming, ration plan use natur resources, fight pollut intellig polici protect environment, engag citizen crucial issu must respect life possibl planet.",1
0,"activ member unit nations, made contribut reinforc awar sustain develop goals. experi point need state strong institut capabl face challeng threat modern times. convinc intern conflict must resolv negoti dialogue. tool allow promot peac necessari humankind. concern recent increas tension maritim disput south china sea. proudli say first countri use compulsori concili mechanism, advoc unit nation convent law sea. call parti involv resolv differ dialogu negoti order achiev peac solution.",1
0,"feel just, call end embargo suffer peopl govern cuba. solidar cuban scientists, doctor health professionals, fight covid-19, deserv respect admiration.",1
0,"small island develop states, includ tonga, contribut one percent global greenhous ga emissions, unfortun continu bear brunt climat injustice. result, pacif island countri continu imperil mani tropic cyclon unpreced magnitud destruct nature. recent one tropic cyclon harold april year wreak havoc four pacif island nations, namely, fiji, solomon islands, vanuatu, country, tonga. grappl distress effect covid-19 outbreak.",1
0,"2020 mark “year delivery” power sustain develop kingdom attain 50 per cent renew energi penetration, project delay caus global pandemic, sudden halt market suppli chains, led major disrupt tonga’ ndc achiev target.",1
0,"tonga continu recogn import ocean-clim nexus, continu note grave concern detriment impact climat chang marin environment.",1
0,"fight plastic pollution, worrisom tonga note alarm 12 million tonn plastic wast leak ocean annually. place great interest address threat begin process ban single-us plastics. nation region problem, also global problem, requir global solution.",1
0,"cannot overemphas urgenc action protect sustain use world’ ocean, sea marin resources. however, action meaning effect deriv science-bas innov inform data. support proclam unit nation decad ocean scienc sustain develop 2021-2030 provid overarch framework allow ocean scienc support countri sustain develop ocean.",1
0,"allow conclud reaffirm commit revit post covid-19 multilater support theme session. multilater compris global solidar cooperation, empathy, inclus resilience, note import protect vulner individuals, address inequ ensur univers access afford covid-19 medic vaccine, build back better, leav one behind.mr. president,",1
0,"trinidad tobago join famili nation 1962, year attain independence. small island develop state, continu embrac principl collect secur enshrin charter major safeguard small states, rule law, absenc militari econom power, sustain strength sovereignty. mark 75th anniversari unit nations, states, small large, reason proud achiev umbrella rever organisation, creation roadmap global sustain development, advanc develop intern law promot gender equality.",1
0,"throughout 75 year exist unit nations, common thread tapestri collect action recognit global challeng best overcom practic multilater base mutual respect trust. ever time demonstr true spirit global partnership reaffirm rules-bas commitments.",1
0,"context, congratul aptli chosen theme 75th session welcom opportun address assembl share perspect “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action.” small nation like well big nation anticip even depend us share care other.",1
0,"take opportun convey condol express solidar member state famili lost love one due covid-19 global pandemic. mourn loss hundr thousand person worldwide, covid-19, greatli concern alarm rate diseas continu affect million across globe.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem present existenti threat unmatch proport human health safeti around world. overwhelm health sectors, disturb global trade food suppli chains, crush travel leisur industri well disrupt basic livelihood peopl around world. alarmingli pandem intensifi vulner small economi render us suscept exogen shocks. further, covid-19 threaten revers gains, societi achiev toward attain sustain develop goal  sdg  targets.",1
0,"prospect achiev sustain develop hing heavili safeti secur people. global pandem unfortun exacerb threat pose illicit traffick small arm light weapons, piracy, traffick person cybercrimes. given ardent desir free societi effect preval unregul small arm light weapons, trinidad tobago remain fulli commit arm trade treati  att  view indispens address menac illicit arm trade.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem acceler government’ thrust toward digit transform public sector. adjust new normal, quickli adapt utilis remot platform conduct busi instead tradit in-person meetings. optimist greater relianc digit platform result opportun young peopl field relat cyber technolog cyber security.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem coupl signific decreas energi price precipit acceler effort aim diversif economy. respect, alloc resourc increas invest agricultur tourism sector recognis need build resili area incentives, policies, programm public privat partnerships. additionally, engend invest agricultur inevit lead reduct demand certain import foods, preserv limit financi resourc achiev food-secur nation. also continu encourag particip women agri-business, agricultur tourism remain seiz fact women undertak role ensur famili receiv nutrit need healthi sometim breadwinners.",1
0,"marin environ resourc remain critic livelihood peopl trinidad tobago, sustain development. govern ocean continu priority. unfortunately, result global pandemic, fourth session intergovernment confer intern legal bind instrument unit nation convent law sea conserv sustain use marin biolog divers area beyond nation jurisdiction, postponed. given critic stage negotiations, trinidad tobago remain hope earli resumption, success complet would redound benefit humankind.",1
0,"session coincid seventy-fifth anniversari creation unit nations. opportun review organization’ work explor way develop organ becom effect flexibl order meet aspir peopl world peace, security, democraci development, embodi principl purpos charter unit nations.",1
0,"tunisia welcom ceasefir agreement sisterli libya underscor firm commit utmost assist libyan brother reach polit settlement inclus libyan dialogue, unit nation auspices. also call intern commun uphold respons establish secur find sustain comprehens solut variou disput crise region world.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem deepen crise african continent. tunisia stress commit continu work african brother intern partner achiev sustain comprehens develop overcom challeng face together. context, reiter support silenc gun africa. initi ongo effort need greater intern support order african contin free conflict focu construct development.",1
0,"terror violent extrem continu repres one seriou threat nation peopl intern peac security. scourg worsen exploit ongo crise activ organ crime certain countri regions. threat target state themselves, social cohes effort develop democracy.",1
0,"order prevent loss reput intern organizations, must first review mentality, institut rules.",1
0,"must rapidli implement comprehens meaning reforms, start restructur secur council.",1
0,call suppli medic equip drug vaccin develop effort made issu competition.,1
0,"pandemic, experienc togeth vital element state capacity, effect govern resili are.",1
0,"behind turkey’ success stori lie effect govern mechan establish presidenti govern system, high capac develop infrastructur invest area health, qualifi human resources.",1
0,"end, polit process initi auspic unit nations, also syrian-own syrian-led, brought success conclusion.",1
0,"also respons intern commun stop bloodsh yemen, continu five years, stop humanitarian crisis.",1
0,"favor resolv issu iran’ nuclear program take account intern law, diplomaci dialogue.",1
0,"armenia, attack azerbaijani territori july, prove biggest obstacl last peac stabil south caucasus.",1
0,reason problem exist region today one-sid step taken greec greek cypriot sinc 2003 maximalist demands.,1
0,disarma vital import ensur global peac security.,1
0,"intern commun must move forward basi equal justic regard, elimin weapon mass destruction.",1
0,"pandem escal econom crisi associ also neg effect sustain development, 2030 goals.",1
0,"fact, happen pandem shown us sustain develop goal import guid combat kind global crises.",1
0,also use transform power digit prepar econom prescript surviv crisis.,1
0,plan implement project aim strengthen africa’ capac third turkey-african union partnership summit intend hold turkey next year.,1
0,"must cours keep distanc pandemic, must also close rank joint struggl cooper challeng threaten intern community.",1
0,"social econom impact pandem felt mani year come. recov long costli process, especi vulnerable. global solidarity, effect intern cooper polit commit critic sustain respons recov build back better.",1
0,"covid-19 significantli disrupt economi societi right across world. indeed, covid-19 reshap contour normal way things, place us “new normal”. therefore, must think outsid box, must also work outsid box. un member must work collabor togeth build back better countri economi that:",1
0, v 	build resili futur crisi,1
0,digit economi essenti support transform sustain development. mani countri yet realis full econom potenti digit economi mani way ensur develop self-suffici peopl levels.,1
0,centr develop people. substanti advanc human capac need improv educ healthcare. result product societi higher incom better standard living.,1
0,"covid-19 immedi crisis, climat chang remain singl greatest threat livelihoods, secur wellb pacif peopl long run. pacif island forum leader last year reaffirm commit kainaki ii declar urgent climat chang action now. share prosper secur blue pacif safe exist intern commun pursu effort limit global warm 1.5 °c.",1
0,"decarbon remain central effort combat impact climat change, help build resili small vulner economi societies. need clean afford energi energi efficiency, renew electrification. pari agreement’ 2020 commit updat ndc develop low emiss develop strategi remain critical. synerg covid19 recoveri effort acceler transit decarbon build resilience.",1
0,"covid-19 expos vulner food secur systems. atol nation like tuvalu, agricultur difficult rise sea levels. last years, assist develop partners, invest new agricultur food product system resili climat chang sea level rise. acknowledg recent work peacebuild fund area would encourag assist scale initi develop food secur atol nations.",1
0,"govern enhanc interconnected manag build 3,500 kilometr road numer larg bridg past five years. moreover, upgrad major port transport facilities, rang standard-gaug railway run central tanzania restor railway transport facil eastern corridor. mileston includ manufactur refurbish ship improv water transport connect area surround bodi water. govern also overseen procur 11 aeroplanes, eight oper commercially.",1
0,"swearing-in june excel mr. evarist ndayishimiye, presid republ burundi, culmin long-await presidenti elect burundi. elections’ peac conclusion, tanzania urg intern commun assist new govern provid much need aid econom social develop citizen burundi region large.",1
0,"“in addit incalcul health human toll, pandem left indel mark global economy. across world, countri suffer sudden shock economies. beyond immedi challeng current crisis, need greater focu recoveri epidemic. impact covid-19 mitig act immedi collectively. applaud effort variou intern region organizations, unit nations, world health organization, movement non-align countries, african union  au , commonwealth, intergovernment author develop  igad  east african commun  eac , among others, deal pandemic.",1
0,"“climat chang remain one greatest challeng time. continu wit climate-chang disast across globe result consider loss life property. clear countri immun disasters. address climat chang call effect bold multilater action us. uganda, example, continu experi prolong droughts, melt ice cap highest mountain, mount rwenzori, floods, errat rainfal landslides. recent experienc impact intens prolong rainfal increas level major bodi water caus flood sever area country. govern continu invest climat adapt mitig measur includ expand access consumpt clean energi order enhanc production, well increas forest wetland cover, line ambiti nation determin contributions. invest enabl us halt, reduc revers environment degrad advers effect climat change, well improv sustain use natur resourc inclus econom growth.",1
0,"“the gener assembl approv quadrenni comprehens polici review oper activ develop unit nation system reposit unit nation develop system 2016 2018 respectively, order make develop system strategic, accountable, transparent, collaborative, efficient, effect results-oriented. approv aros need reposit unit nation oper activ develop support countri nation effort implement 2030 agenda sustain development. commend secretary-gener progress made far implement approv reform consult member states. uganda work within group 77  g-77  china next cycl quadrenni comprehens polici review ensur receiv appropri polici guidanc next four year support countri acceler implement 2030 agenda jurisdictions.",1
0,"“uganda applaud secretary-gener time appeal global ceasefir covid-19 pandemic. doubt pandem global impact aspect lives, social, econom political, almost countri across globe. arm conflict war continued, pandem made worsen situat even dire. africa’ continent subregion organ continu play critic role conflict prevent crisi continent. welcom direct partnership engag unit nation african union peac secur matters, acceler recent years. experi shown wherev intern community, unit nation particular, support region efforts, successful. encourag strengthen partnership.",1
0,"undoubtedly, last year prove ukrain realli strive peace. manag unblock dialogue, resum meet normandi format leaders, made substanti progress mutual releas detain persons. start 27 july, comprehens ceasefir place, which, despit attempt disrupt it, still give hope achiev sustain ceasefire. badli need keep move toward genuin peace.",1
0,"next step way becom withdraw unlaw militari format armament occupi territories, return control state border, and, finally, restor territori integr ukrain within intern recogn borders.",1
0,"addition, avail opportun want invit friend particip establish intern crimea platform concert action protect right crimean de occupi peninsula.",1
0,75th anniversari un foundat becom impetu transform organ dynam effici body.,1
0,"scale current pandem distress consequ — loss life impact health mani peopl — focu attent must seek solut peoples, particular vulner risk affect pandem result impact health, well way mean life.",1
0,"would also like call intern commun ensur current pandem result fail fulli honour commit made multilater level. must avoid fall prey nation protectionism, would way harm intern relat intern trade disrupt suppli chain distribut medic suppli necessari emerg health crisis.",1
0,"govern also made necessari commit educ levels, educ essenti full actual human be ensur citizen equal opportunities.",1
0,"uruguay develop nation climat chang respons plan, address risk prevention, mitig adaptation.",1
0,"also welcom hold summit biodiversity, take place next week. express commit promot strategi practic sustain use biolog divers natur resources, develop mechan improv manag use.",1
0,"peac environ indispens address pandemic, must recommit dialogue, peac disput resolut rule law order allevi suffer bring hope vulner populations.",1
0,"mr. president, futur want peopl one move ahead common support solut challeng emerge, order achiev sustain inclus development, right respect opportun offer develop everi citizen world, leav one behind.",1
0,"particularli appreci organization’ effort includ civil societi privat sector, part solut economic, social environment issu arise, inclus sustain develop requir particip entir society.",1
0,"militari increas substanti size. spent $2.5 trillion last 4 year military. power militari anywher world, it’ even close.",1
0,"take care citizens, find true basi cooperation.",1
0,calam vividli reveal humanity’ vulnerability.,1
0,"current threaten complex situat prove state peopl world interconnect regular dialogue, trust close cooper among us extrem important.",1
0,"sinc earli day covid-19 outbreak uzbekistan, focus effort resourc contain danger diseas and, importantly, save people’ lives.",1
0,"social protect health system cardin strengthen mitig neg effect pandem  target support provid population, sector economi businesses.",1
0,"country, half popul young, extens work underway ensur everi young person take worthi place societi demonstr potential.",1
0,"addition, propos adopt special resolut unit nation gener assembl enhanc role parliament achiev sustain develop goal ensur human rights.",1
0,"well-known, ancient cultur rich spiritu heritag region global importance.",1
0,express hope talk serv bring peac stabil long-suff land afghanistan.,1
0,togeth close cooper realiz dream aspir afghan people.,1
0,"end, propos establish perman un commiss afghanistan would address concern long-suff afghan people.",1
0,"conclusion, would like emphas yet anoth point: continu unrest variou part world, grow conflict violence, environment disast modern threat exacerb global problem miseri poverty.",1
0,"pandemic, indeed, call us “to seiz time trial time choosing, time choos matter pass away, time separ necessari not”. repres concret opportun conversion, transformation, rethink way life econom social systems, widen gap rich poor base unjust distribut resources. hand, pandem occas “defens retreat” greater individu elitism.",1
0,"current crisi also demonstr solidar must empti word promise. also shown us import avoid everi temptat exceed natur limits. “we freedom need limit direct technolog  put servic anoth type progress, one healthier, human, social, integral”. also need taken care consider discuss complex issu artifici intellig  ai .",1
0,"origin “throwaway culture” gross lack respect human dignity, promot ideolog reduct understand human person, denial univers fundament human rights, crave absolut power control widespread today’ society. let us name is: attack human itself.",1
0,"numer signific intern effort respond crise begin great promis — think two global compact refuge migrat — yet mani lack necessari polit support prove successful. other fail individu state shirk respons commitments. same, current crisi offer opportun unit nation help build fratern compassion society.",1
0,"includ reconsid role econom financi institutions, like bretton-woods, must respond rapidli grow inequ super-rich perman poor. econom model encourag subsidiarity, support econom develop local level invest educ infrastructur benefit local communities, lay foundat econom success also renew larger commun nation. would renew appeal",1
0,"think alarm situat amazon indigen peoples. see environment crisi insepar link social crisis, care environ call integr approach combat poverti exclusion.",1
0,"cannot fail acknowledg devast effect covid-19 crisi children, includ unaccompani young migrant refugees. violenc children, includ horribl scourg child abus pornography, also dramat increased.",1
0,"first teacher everi child mother father, family, univers declar human right describ “natur fundament group unit society”. often, famili victim form ideolog coloni weaken end produc mani members, especi vulnerable, young elderly, feel orphan lack roots. breakdown famili reflect social fragment hinder effort confront common enemies. time reassess recommit achiev goals.",1
0,"need break present climat distrust. present, wit eros multilateralism, seriou light develop new form militari technology, lethal autonom weapon system  law  irrevers alter natur warfare, detach human agency.",1
0,"nuclear deterrence, particular, creat etho fear base threat mutual annihil  way, end poison relationship peopl obstruct dialogue. import support princip intern legal instrument nuclear disarmament, nonprolifer prohibition. holi see trust forthcom review confer parti treati non-prolifer nuclear weapon  npt  result concret action accord joint intent “to achiev earliest possibl date cessat nuclear arm race undertak effect measur direct nuclear disarmament”.",1
0,"venezuela recogn that, 75 years, unit nation organ given great contribut humanity. however, demand effort preserv achievements, advanc new objectives. insist need strengthen south-south cooper creat altern mechan financ technic support back initi prioriti defin peopl achiev sustain develop goals. time urgent task everi day counts. “the south also thinks, south also matters, south also exists”, poet benedetti said, centenni presence.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem come chang realiti prioriti humanity, consequ human life. pandem made evid inequ world exacerb them. unfortunately, conting measur face pandem increas social econom gap within countries. intern community, whole, must provid global coordin respons support nation need, help creat condit stronger economi inclus societies.",1
0,"must first identifi driver turmoil. five sources, afghanistan deal simultaneously. covid-19 pandem expos vulnerabilities, point we, global community, could longer afford ignor them. afghan fortun contain first wave pandem close government, busi societ cooperation, minim input un agencies, pandem expos gap system must addressed.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem done us world war ii gener us — immens human cost phenomenon global impact then, now, forc pay attent take unpreced action.",1
0,"face vulner exacerb pandemic, anoth driver inequ unemploy upend world — 4th industri revolution. digit age upon us, challeng us adapt way consume, way work, way govern.",1
0,"afghanistan, experi adapt digit revolut wield sourc econom opportun overwhelmingli young population, well way strengthen system govern rule law. look far ahead knowledg tri replic 19th 20th centuri model now, becom irrelev soon stabil them.",1
0,"new kind industri revolution, combin pandemic, present challeng plan execut gathering, yet unga leadership manag creativ transform experi one efficient, effective, conveni far less risky. want congratul excel volkan bozkir assum presid 75th session unga, also success overcom particular challeng host massiv gather global leader pandemic.",1
0,"violenc warfar also evolved, evolut afghan wit suffer real time. living, dying, insid 5th wave global terrorism, global terrorist network close link global crimin networks, make warfar total unconvent peace-build even challenge.",1
0,"state society, demonstr commitment, compass courag take hard decis start direct peac talk taliban. won’t enough. sustain afghanistan, must get root terror problem blight region address global phenomenon, threat, is.",1
0,"untold sorrow afghan people, particularli women children, last 40 years, serv remind relev un charter, also unfulfil promise, “maintain intern peac security.”",1
0,climat chang effect anoth type violenc suffer people. afghanistan 17th worst affect countri world.,1
0,"last month, hundr afghan kill injured, entir home livelihood destroyed, massiv flood water rip provinc parwan 13 provinces. two year before, extrem — drought — led us nation-wid wheat shortag upend livelihood major popul reli job agricultur put food tables.",1
0,drought flood season occurr afghanistan. need region solut base intern model address problem climat change.,1
0,"sign memoranda understand fortescu metal group chang afghanistan lead green industry, energi intend produc 20,000 megawatt hydro use produc zero emiss steel product estim $1 trillion miner resources.",1
0,"also discuss corpor turn 70,000 megawatt wind, 220,000 megawatt solar renew energy, therebi becom hub renew energi green industri region.",1
0,"fifth driver turmoil culmin first four — unpreced explos inequ continu perpetu state turmoil, — unless — take action. afghanistan focus human capit human secur creat equal opportun fellow citizen societ stabil people.",1
0,"come back first driver — covid-19 pandem — scope scale impact forc us see four drivers, worsen highlight pandemic.",1
0,pandem taught us urgent lesson: longer ignor drivers.,1
0,"truth, extrem level uncertainti make futur difficult predict, tri address question answer would simple.",1
0,"shape share futur direct fulfil promis us take unpreced act cooper coordin action level global village’ community, economi governance.",1
0,"time, invest strengthen state govern structur creat environ conduc growth. mean continu combat system corruption, improv public financi manag systems, strengthen provinci district level governance.",1
0,"talks, afghan peopl clear urgent priority: ceasefire. urgent end violenc will, anyth else, give us chanc progress.",1
0,"would like take opportun call everi member gener assembl perman member secur council help us achiev end-stat sovereign, unit democrat afghanistan, peac region, capabl preserv expand gain last 19 years. democrat stabl prosper afghanistan exampl collect overcom turmoil uncertainti defin world today. thank you.hi excel antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nations.",1
0,"today, despit current circumst aris covid-19 pandemic, impos us restrict movement procedur appropri juncture, possibl commun amongst virtual feel togeth thank almost unlimit possibl brought new technolog servic mankind.",1
0,"also would like highlight exemplari manner tackl problem result covid-19 pandemic, whose effect consequ would taken dramat proport experienc now, world health organ special agenc unit nation system act quickli pass recommend greatli help control spread disease.",1
0,pandem come show global level weak health structur respond problem high magnitud severity.,1
0,"despit obviou evidence, joint efforts, collabor cooper amongst nation exchang among special scientif institut manag face problem previous fulli unknown, oblig us seek prompt respons order allevi effect disease.",1
0,"global health problem paralyz momentum built recoveri world economy, econom crisi start 2008, alreadi send encourag signal recoveri special develop countries, case angola.",1
0,"hope start yield posit result follow endeavour domest economi reform, conduct context appli harsh measures, tough impact live people, come true soon due current constraint disrupt product chain, affect price main export commodities, paralys servic vital sector economy, give rise high unemploy rate alarm social situation.",1
0,"one singl resourc financ product sector recoveri diverted, given current context, serv need biosafeti necess urgent epidemiolog natur brought pandemic.",1
0,"goal may achiev develop countri mobil establish fund invest aid africa use investor interest busi african continent, may produc good servic local consumpt export.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem come prove act coordination, respons share effici manner thu satisfactori result achieved.",1
0,"reason, along journey unit nation alway advoc multilater resolv intric problem humanity.",1
0,"unit nations, within current world context, portray realiti total differ one basi establishment, seek reflect within intern structur characterist geopolit realiti nowaday order render organ abl safeguard balanc global interests.",1
0,"regard, reiter urgent need reform organ achiev un secur council attend better represent peoples, nation continents.",1
0,"75 year exist unit nations, plenti reason proud of. result global cooper framework un, manag prevent major militari conflagr reduc human suffering.",1
0,current crisi threaten slow even revers progress new sustain develop goals.,1
0,"respond determin fast world recovers, shape abil achiev sustain develop goal manag global challenges.",1
0,"pandem shed new light humanity’ need strengthen multilater system, base principl ideal enshrin un charter intern law.",1
0,"regard, strongli support vision ambiti reform agenda un secretary-general. albania convinc reform unit nation deliv integr system-wid approach achiev 2030 agenda make sure one left behind.",1
0,"order flatten curv pandem prevent global econom crisis, must react collectively, spirit uniti solidarity.",1
0,"2019 difficult year albania. struck two power earthquakes, left 50 peopl dead billion us dollar damages.",1
0,"albania strive make full use econom potential, align nation prioriti object 2030 sustain develop agenda nation strategi develop integration.",1
0,"need pay special attent need vulner groups, especi young people. econom effect result pandem lead increas number unemploy young people, prompt flee countri origin.",1
0,"albania’ osc chairmanship 2020 tangibl demonstr steadfast commit promot intern peac secur dialogu multilater co-operation, time rais tension polarisation.",1
0,"order continu activ particip creat stabil security, albania present candidatur elect non-perman member secur council, mandat 2022-2023.",1
0,"last year, organ albania region conference, “religion instrument peace”, collabor us state department, aim advanc religion freedom fundament human right issue.",1
0,it’ messag serv power antidot rise intoler violent extrem undermin peac security.,1
0,"renew commit expect deliv concret result key benchmark relat democrat function rule law, reflect crossparti polit consensu serv overal stabil country.",1
0,"region tragic histori dictatorships, oppress militari conflicts. despit difficult legaci still haunt region, signific progress made past two decades, larg thank cycl reform trigger ongo nato european union enlarg processes.",1
0,"encourag welcom fact albanian factor continu support european euro atlant cours throughout region, strengthen time region cooper ownership ambiti projects.",1
0,remain hope agreement inject new dynam relat kosova serbia.,1
0,kosova establish solid constitut legal framework provid unpreced protect right minor cultur heritage. fulli line often exce relev european acqui term human right protection.,1
0,"membership kosova intern organizations, unit nation included, would benefit kosova, also whole intern community.",1
0,"conclud mr. president, would like reaffirm albania’ commit support reform reinvigor rule-bas order, unit nation centre. we, member states, must part uphold strengthen multilater system order benefit it.",1
0,"would like start intervent congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir elect presid gener assembly, would also like congratul secretari general, antonio guterres, secretariat unit nations. celebr 75th anniversari unit nation great assembl peopl world, creat primari object construct multilater way implement system valu code conduct base cooperation, undoubtedli rememb year sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook pillar societies.",1
0,"magnitud public health emerg requir unpreced mobil resources. govern institutions, civil social organ invest great energi fight covid-19. however, first respons heroic effort come health professionals. therefore, would like take advantag gener debat unit nation vindic work. demonstr profession value, also shown immens human quality, because, unfortunately, viru often depriv us contact accompani person near us, necessari moment difficulty. however, spite all, men women health servic provid constant support peopl famili live adversity.",1
0,"1945, unit nation emerg ruin devast war history. organ led way tackl univers challeng creat institut framework made signific progress area import human rights, poverti eradication, consolid democrat institutions, fight climat chang promot sustain development, also provid protect vulner arm conflicts. thank multilateralism, unit nation often abl reach area tradit diplomaci not. even time present one, pandem expos weak states, unit nation continu see cooper antidot confrontation. perspective, would like highlight work organ carri out, especi secretari general, within context fragil present situat which, unfortunately, share mani common point scenario led found unit nations.",1
0,"unit nation continu broaden sphere action recent years: rang improv people’ live condit development-rel matter becom key element multilater agenda. develop view formula erad poverty, fight inequ injustice, initi climat action. clear pandem worsen situation, must also serv incent push paradigm change, govern andorra convinc right moment build better greener world, nation level, approach sustain transvers manner main line polit action, intern level within area cooper  world must sustain ceas be.",1
0,"requir involv everybody, public authorities, civil societi privat initiative, scienc knowledge, inspir sustain develop goal principl human right lie core actions.",1
0,"mani situat need consid observ transvers manner  gender equality, attent children young people, particip protect elderly, non-discrimin peopl disabilities. realiti present, uncertainti futur experi past shown us need teach valu invest effort ensur school abl appli meet increasingli greater demands. success societi base growth human capit educ training.",1
0,"fight climat chang continu one prioriti andorra, countri special awar natur environment. year signific year climat action plan new scenario understanding, mark ratif new object reduc greenhous ga emissions, within framework climat chang confer cop26 held unit kingdom. andorra approv pari agreement 2015 without doubt hesitation, pass law energi transit fight climat chang reflect contribut pari agreement. indeed, one first countri establish plan reduc emiss experi work toward becom sustain countri sinc awar must preserv resourc natur environ futur generations. reason, spare effort fight climat change.",1
0,"anoth action remov doubt may convict commit fight climat chang area role play head pro tempor secretariat ibero-american summit period two year motto “innov sustain development- object 2030”. joint declar adopt environ minist environ confer 16 septemb last, one high point presid allow us build environment agenda among 22 member state ibero-american conference.",1
0,"crisi trigger covid-19 profound impact daili live mani families, countri exception. sens respons duti feel toward fellow citizen led govern andorra review road map envisag legislature, develop action plan base convict decis make must increas potenti countri move toward develop preserv sustain medium long term.",1
0,"realist plan build strength country, health social protect system, educ model country’ high level public safety, histor uniqueness, cultur divers privileg natur environment. however, plan also identifies, one would expect, aspect need improv base belief sustain — understood transvers sens — main guid line polit action. reason, develop roadmap awar impact action taken moment effect endur way beyond present time. action line sustain develop goals, govern institut must main catalyst chang promot unit nations.",1
0,"sars-cov-2 pandem forc us unimagin situations. world brought sudden halt week first victim covid-19 announced: schools, factories, offices, roads, stadia etc. felt silent order fight invis enemi also allow us see world would never again.",1
0,"seen digit take giant step matter weeks, also seen telework becom norm educ non-presential, oblig million peopl becom technolog literate. also seen crack appear process  reconsid valu system care elderly, main victim viru  must rememb telework bring better work-lif balanc home space appropri adequ  seen distanc learn highlight deep inequ among famili cannot access services, suffer overexposur inform which, apart reduc human contact, sometim creat manipul unsaf environments.",1
0,"also hope, because, ever, seen flourish valu solidar empathy, sincer recognit health healthcar professionals, sens civil respons popul favor common interest, well increas ecolog awareness.",1
0,"today, year commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, andorra want add voic support organ repres essenc multilateralism, recent year manag preserv initi spirit evolv time. now, ever, must appeal recogn spirit vision un’ founders, abl overcom obstacl terribl war well differ opinion order preserv mankind.",1
0,"need make progress mani areas. alreadi know want go, get alway complic part. want recogn work carri secretari gener reform develop system, contribut state made resolut propos improvement. however, undeni time lose, must build knowledg procedur work expert effici want respond commit charter obtain result peac security, right development.",1
0,"coincid 75th anniversari unit nations, world wit critic turn point follow spread coronavirus. celebr achiev made sinc foundat unit nations, must reflect natur challeng face. today, conflict becom danger regionalized. also grow influenc extremist groups. threat cyberwar rise use sophist weapon attack strateg area increasing.",1
0,"despit mount global threats, uae believ transform unpreced challeng great opportun unit effort build intern institut capabl cope current emerg challenges. past month proven confront intern threat requir take collect action wise leadership forg coordin intern respons address implic threats.",1
0,"solv crises, especi arab region, requir take unifi intern position. posit reject violat sovereignti state interfer intern affairs. posit seek un led polit solut address threat pose terrorist group houthis, da’esh, al-qaeda muslim brotherhood. context, unit arab emir reiter support secretary-general’ appeal global ceasefire.",1
0,"warn stem realiti experience. tension yemen, syria, libya, iraq state relat blatant interfer arab affair made state incit strife discord, histor delus restor domin coloni rule arab region horn africa. result brutal wars. context, recal firm posit reject region interfer arab affairs, request full respect sovereignty, fulli consist intern law intern norms.",1
0,"although illeg interfer destabil yemen’ secur years, strongli believ stabil yemen restored, especi within current environ could lead complet ceasefir perman polit solut auspic unit nations. regard, affirm decis pursu polit process yemen yemeni decision. countri also commend tremend effort made brotherli kingdom saudi arabia. reiter uae’ support riyadh agreement call unit yemeni posit order reach sustain solution.",1
0,"similar context, countri express deep concern regard turkey’ militari interfer libya, alarm part region interfer arab affair exacerb humanitarian crisis, undermin effort reach peac solution, destabil entir region. therefore, countri support repeat call immedi ceasefir libya call upon parti commit polit process auspic unit nation build outcom berlin conference. sinc outbreak conflict libya, countri call peac polit solut crisi order achiev last secur stability.",1
0,"likewise, countri call stop foreign interfer syrian affair warn seriou implic syria’ uniti arab security. also reiter polit process way end syrian crisi protect secur people.",1
0,"also express concern regard vulner conflict area coronaviru pandemic, area least prepar address danger.",1
0,"countri also continu call peac settlement disputes. context, reiter uae’ firm posit legitim right sovereignti three islands: greater tunb, lesser tunb, abu musa, occupi iran flagrant violat intern law un charter, total disregard histor record clearli affirm uae’ ownership island island arab rule sinc ancient times. therefore, uae give demand iran return island right owners. countri call iran peac resolv issu direct negotiations, intern court justice. however, iran answer calls.",1
0,"look forward see iran respect principl good-neighborli abid secur council resolut stop develop ballist missil program ceas arm terrorist groups. context, countri particularli concern restrict impos iran nuclear agreement soon due expire. sinc nuclear agreement achiev desir outcome, hope experi use achiev comprehens agreement address concern state region make key partner draft term agreement.",1
0,"pandem reveal us fragil recreat need build bridg people, nation regions.",1
0,"spirit solidar govern priorit sinc arriv pandem poverty, one safe, everyon safe.",1
0,"why, start pandemic, argentina focus primarili protect live care vulnerable, implement seri emerg measur prevent collaps health system mitig immedi impact pandemic.",1
0,"also essenti consid conduct cooperation, adopt multidimension approach goe beyond per capita incom determin elig criteria offici develop assist  oda . 60 per cent poor live middle-incom countries. serv countries, demonstr solidar understand real progress built everyon involved, make littl steadi progress achiev sustain develop goals.",1
0,"need unit nation 4.0, foundat valu intact vision incorpor immens technolog chang way, make human, democrat social inclusive.",1
0,"overcom pandem achiev goal 2030 agenda requir economic, industri social polici aim bring structur chang economies.",1
0,firmli believ collect commit need achiev swift effect implement pari agreement.,1
0,"turbul global environment, assum toxic irrespons extern debt specul purpos mean anoth wave delay underdevelopment.",1
0,"argentina manag seal major deal almost privat extern creditors, becom one first countri meet challeng debt restructur pandemic.",1
0,"support intern community, includ sever countri repres here, privat sector, civil societi intern academ community, key restor public debt sustainability.",1
0,"urg intern commun continu seek new multilater approach facilit orderli debt restructur ensur increas access public policy, address pandem sustain inclus growth.",1
0,"promot protect human right core polici argentin state sinc 1983. decis result ratif grant constitut statu exist intern human right instruments, well activ particip region intern levels.",1
0,post-pandem world exacerb sever refuge displac person crisi face planet region. answer promot guarante human right migrants.,1
0,global crisi caus covid-19 also highlight sever gender inequality.,1
0,"govern commit issu why, first time history, creat ministri women, gender diversity, well nation cabinet, ensur gender polici cross-cutting.",1
0,"twenty-six year bomb argentin israelit mutual associ headquarters, wish maintain polici initi 2003 continu thereafter. call author islam republ iran cooper argentin judici author order make progress investig attack.",1
0,"year mark fifty-fifth anniversari resolut 2065  xx , first adopt organ question malvina islands, call argentina unit kingdom hold negoti order reach peac definit solut sovereignti dispute.",1
0,"unit kingdom persist attitud ignor call resum negoti territori disput aggrav disput call illeg unilater exploit renew non-renew natur resourc area, run counter gener assembl resolut 31 49.",1
0,"unit kingdom also insist unjustifi excess militari presenc islands, bring tension region character peac intern cooperation.",1
0,"indeed, pandem unpreced impact aspect human life. address global challeng requir recommit state effect multilater intern cooper central role unit nations.",1
0,"juli escalation, call intern commun mostli respect ceasefire, dialogu restraint. turkey, however, much line destabil polici power project neighbor regions, includ east mediterranean, north africa middl east, spare effort fuel tension south caucasus, well. unilater support azerbaijan expans militari presenc there, turkey undermin effort peac stabil region, well effort osc minsk group co-chair end. turkey directli threaten armenia put show aggress militari postur way provoc joint militari drill azerbaijan close vicin armenia nagorno karabakh. turkey build polici region tradit kinship, exploit conflicts, justif armenian genocid impun crime. turkey pose secur threat armenia region. context, armenia continu activ engag region intern effort maintain peac secur dialogu cooperation.",1
0,"prevent genocid unwav prioriti armenia. nation endur horrors, moral respons human preserv memori victim genocid contribut effort intern commun prevent recurr horrend crimes.",1
0,covid-19 pandem brought realiz directli face nations.,1
0,"narrow nationalist polici undermin intern cooper make matter worse, better.",1
0,"nation, howev wealthy, surviv market dwindl sourc suppli decline.",1
0,"uniti human needs, requir function multilater system respect democrat principl sovereignty, particip consent  reject bulli doctrin exclusion, imposit abus econom sanctions.",1
0,"econom commiss latin america caribbean  eclac  forecast gross domest product  gdp  caribbean contract 6.9 per cent 2020, effect covid-19 economies.",1
0,"country, highli depend tourism, closur borders, cessat cruis tourism limit aviation, effect devast economi overnight, result seriou loss revenues, also sudden signific loss jobs.",1
0,"govern expend enorm resources, spend high as, 8 per cent gdp, mitig impact public health crisis, amid extraordinari declin revenu foreign exchange.",1
0,"economi weakens, insuffici respons intern commun debt reschedul access concession financing, unemploy poverti growing.",1
0,"presently, one activ laboratori confirm case covid-19 infection, despit re-open border june 1st, daili commerci flight north america europe, attempt earn revenu vital tourism sector protect live livelihoods.",1
0,"situat continu without appropri respons intern community, mani countries, like mine, unabl pay exist debt qualifi new borrowings.",1
0,"even if, countri end imf programm give short-term relief, unless suspens debt payments, debt forgiv debt rescheduling, recov economi  certainli achiev un sustain develop goals, debt stock enlarg compound interest result unpaid debts.",1
0,"“the leader g20 favour multilater organ make loan favour interest rate allevi debt countri highli indebted, defer forgiv it. occur, payment imposs fiscal space compromised. except measur requir confront unpreced crisis. progress without intern cooper solidarity.”",1
0,statement endors entirety. socio-econom sustain region compromis without proactiv debt suspens restructur ultim debt relief.,1
0,"social distancing, mask use sanit measures, deni viru opportun move amongst us.",1
0,invest hospit medic suppli ensur viru overwhelm health system.,1
0,"approach, though tested, save live livelihood protected, best abl to, vulnerable.",1
0,australia support who’ effort develop global framework vaccin therapeut alloc fairly.,1
0,"liber democracy, we’r also commit promot univers valu like human rights, gender equal rule law.",1
0,"sinc join un 1955 austria proud honour contribut areas. whether 60 year peacekeeping, member — current presid — human right council. austria continu part readi assum responsibilities. particular reason, candid un secur council 2027-2028 hope support.",1
0,speech would complet without strong appeal get rid weapon all. pose existenti threat life planet caus tremend human suffering.,1
0,"yes, politicians, duti protect citizens. but, viru distinguish unilateralist multilateralists. covid-19 one safe, everyon safe. we, therefore, avoid form “vaccin nationalism”. develop vaccin becom new race moon.",1
0,"2030 agenda sustain develop goal stipul that, “there sustain develop without peac peac without sustain development”. achiev sustain intern peac security, must put end occupation. adher norm principl intern law implement un secur council resolut must ensured.",1
0,"armenia carri ethnic cleans azerbaijani popul occupi territories. azerbaijani forcibl expel occupi territories. armenia commit number war crime crime human azerbaijani civilians. armenia establish criminal, terrorist puppet regim territori hide respons occup lands.",1
0,cultur heritag azerbaijani peopl territori today’ armenia demolish plundered. armenia also destroy azerbaijani histor religi monument occupi territories. aim eras azerbaijani trace there.,1
0,"intern compani illeg exploit azerbaijan’ natur resourc occupi territori face legal responsibility, don’t stop illicit activ immediately. azerbaijan alreadi start take legal action person compani illeg exploit natur resourc occupi lands.",1
0,"april 2016, armenia launch large-scal militari attack azerbaijan. result attack, 6 azerbaijani civilians, includ one child killed, 26 civilian wounded.",1
0,deliber attack armenia 2017 led death 2 year old zahra guliyeva grandmother.,1
0,"12 juli 2020, armenia perpetr anoth provoc along state border. militari servicemen 76-year-old civilian kill due artilleri bombard azerbaijan’ tovuz district, extens damag done civilian infrastructure.",1
0,"aggress azerbaijan, armenia continu face deep demographic, social econom crisis. regim chang happen armenia two year ago, fascist ideolog fail state remain unchanged.",1
0,"mher yegiazarian, armenian journalist politician die prison follow hunger strike januari 2019. reaction intern organ whose duti observ democraci human right worldwide. human right watch, amnesti international, freedom hous other turn blind eye unhuman brutal action despot regim armenia. reason pashinyan regim financ support soro sponsor mani so-cal human right non-government organ worldwide.",1
0,"armenia countri oppos initi hold special session un gener assembl respons covid-19, wherea armenia, situat coronaviru desperate. armenia object initi azerbaijan launch it. object endeavor product irrat thought. anoth demonstr polici “azerbaijanophobia” prevail armenia promot government. hatr azerbaijani peopl instil young generation.",1
0,"launch effici measur tackl problem freshwat shortag due climat change. azerbaijan ratifi pari agreement, voluntari oblig achiev 35 per cent reduct greenhous ga emiss 2030 compar base year 1990. azerbaijan, use environment friendli natur ga hydroelectr power station electr generation.",1
0,"coronaviru pandem chang situat world entirely, result, new realiti emerged. initially, viru expect affect develop nations. however, pandem signific impact develop nation well. show viru recogn borders. mutual support joint effort overcom pandemic.",1
0,"azerbaijan taken time necessari prevent measur stop spread virus. azerbaijan’ attain millennium develop goal progress toward achiev sustain develop goal enabl us conduct effect fight pandemic. healthcar infrastructur azerbaijan develop renov significantly, almost 700 hospit healthcar facil built complet renov past 17 years.",1
0,"thank measur undertaken, country’ situat covid-19 remain control. citizens’ life health prioriti us, despit econom difficulti caus pandemic.",1
0,"socio-econom stimulu packag worth $2 billion releas ensur econom stability, tackl employ issues, ensur macroeconom fiscal stability. social relief measur cover nearli 5 million people, half population.",1
0,"outset, would like first foremost thank almighti god, enabl us come togeth debat issu dear heart behalf humankind.",1
0,"therefor firmli condemn unjustifi polit diplomat aggress burundi peopl foreign governments, known attempt regim chang 2015 unconstitut means. power diplomaci must give way mutual benefici respect cooperation.",1
0,"natur relat africa countri coloni past redefin order transform pain histori colon opportun mutual benefici cooperation, cannot lose sight fact conquest enslav africa strong resist peopl africa defend invas free coloni yoke claim million live africa left deep wound remain unhealed.",1
0,"regard burundi’ presenc secur council’ agenda, alway said burundi unfairli includ secur council’ agenda polit reason self-interest certain powers, noth welfar burundian peopl way whatsoev pose threat intern peac security.",1
0,"order share experi road travel implement sdgs, successes, current emerg challeng lesson learned, burundi submit voluntari nation review mechan 2020. remain convinc that, order sdgs, adopt 2015 becom reality, requir addit commitment, initiative, effort and, all, resources.",1
0,"regard climate, necessari recal planet, live live gener come, face crisi worsen day dramat rise climat sceptics. climat crisi put decad progress risk jeopard project undertaken bring inclus sustain development, while, time, clock continu click without wait us act.",1
0,"accordingly, order contribut restor environ improv country’ environmental, social econom situation, novemb 2017 govern republ burundi launch ewe burundi urambay project significantli reduc effect deforestation.",1
0,"regard covid-19 pandemic, led unpreced global crisis, liter claim hundr thousand lives, affect million peopl threaten erod eye progress alreadi made implement sustain develop goal 2030 agenda sustain develop agenda 2063 african union.",1
0,"pandem expos vulner today’ world highlight broad divid nation global develop efforts, high level poverti inequality, rage climat chang continu discrimin elderly, poor communities, women girls, erod social cohesion.",1
0,"but, minds, also led uncertainti question future.",1
0,geopolit tension palpabl conflict way loom variou corner globe. health crisi exacerb tensions.,1
0,"no, enough. plan must abandon all. annex would serious undermin viabil last solut close door futur negotiations.",1
0,"would like express government’ gratitud unit nations, member state intern organ consider assist provid develop countri gener benin, particular, design implement strategi respond pandemic. thank combin efforts, spread viru limit country, meant benin’ rate spread death rate low.",1
0,"burkina faso thank un secretary-gener global call solidarity, launch 31 march 2020. call enabl establish global framework aim promot integr flexibl response, order make best use un system’ global footprint.",1
0,world live fearsom intern peac secur threat worldwid geostrateg tensions.,1
0,"pandem stark remind fate interconnect one secur everyon secured. pandem larg extent kept us restrict homes. consequently, econom activ greatli hamper along health systems. bangladesh achiev gdp growth rate 8.2 per cent fiscal year 2018-2019. covid 19 pandem imped econom progress.",1
0,"alongwith govern assistance, collect fund distribut amount 2.5 billion taka among orphans, poor students, madrasas, mosques, temples, school teachers, artists, journalist otherwis includ government’ assist programmes. result, impact pandem among peopl minimal.",1
0,"pandemic, highest emphasi place food production. time, taken measur ensur adequ suppli nutrit people. special arrang made keep industri run proper market agricultur product industri output full complianc health guidelines. consequently, health sector economi still compar better shape. despit covid-19-induc stagnat global industri outputs, gdp regist growth rate 5.24 per cent, expect 7 per centin next fiscal year.",1
0,unflinch commit peac result adopt zero- toler polici toward terror violent extremism. nation effort complement intern cooper curb menace.,1
0,"like countries, temporarili close border regul movement peopl limit spread covid-19. prioriti was, alway be, protect live ensur safeti within borders. temporari closur border caus one largest declin visitor number sinc advent modern tourism bahamas.",1
0,"slowdown econom activ area privat sector caus unpreced increas unemploy prompt activ unemploy benefit programm self-employ assist programme, well social safeti programmes, includ nation food distribut program, largest feed program nation’ history.",1
0,"honor address behalf bosnia herzegovina year’ unit nation gener assembly. although, due extraordinari circumst caus health crisis, opportun gather un headquarters, extrem import exchang experi opinion manner, maintain continu unit nation gener assembl sessions.",1
0,"coronaviru pandem certainli mark year world, brought us challeng could even imagin that. taking, already, hundr hundr thousand lives, pandem sown misfortun throughout world  aggriev numer families, whose pain truli sympath with.",1
0,"sinc last quarter 2017, bosnia herzegovina face enorm problem illeg migrations, significantli worsen year. due close remain migrat routes, major migrant come far middl east head toward countri european union territori bosnia herzegovina, pose enorm secur humanitarian problem, counti enough resourc solv it.",1
0,"one hand, bosnia herzegovina final destin migrants, face problem sole due geograph proxim european union entri point migrants. hand, bosnia herzegovina understand posit within intern commun european secur area responsibly, also need stronger support european union, well entir intern community.",1
0,"good reason, first time high week gener assembly’ commemor session held unusu format.",1
0,simpl reason “intern community” develop common approach. therefor probabl pandem someth else.,1
0,countri make real progress address global issu other left behind sidelines.,1
0,"context, would also like recal one outstand histor figur unit nation — nobel peac prize laureat former secretary- gener dag hammarskjold, whose 115th birthday commemor year. consid one inspir tireless promot concept prevent diplomacy. dag hammarskjold, die crisi manag mission hotspot, believ mutual respect dialogu honest negoti among parti potenti conflict earli stage could prevent war igniting.",1
0,"must note sever year belaru activ call resumpt broad dialogu intern security, aim overcom current contradict relat among states. dialogu would enabl return build effect global order base multilateralism.",1
0,"accordingly, belaru advoc support pragmat initi within un order fulli realiz potenti organ maintain intern peac security.",1
0,interfer intern affair sanction restrict measur belaru opposit effect harm absolut everyone. alreadi experienc past.,1
0,"see partner stakehold nation intern level one key factor acceler implement 2030 agenda. middle-incom country, belaru believ separ un strategi promot sustain develop — line similar document group develop countri — necessari success achiev sustain develop goal categori states.",1
0,"beliz tourism dependent, export orient country. invariably, therefore, travel tourism industri shutdown market agro product depressed, economi flounders. date 73 per cent worker tourism sector, labour intens sector economy, lost jobs. seemli simultaneously, countri beset health crisi econom crisis. order deal health crisis, govern establish bipartisan nation oversight committe  noc  broad supervisori respons belize’ covid-19 respons recoveri initiatives, includ initi mitig impact covid-19 pandem societi economy.",1
0,"term econom stimulus, govern launch programm anim impact sector economi includ extens $7.25-million line credit micro, small medium enterpris  provis wage subsidi promot employe retention, provis $5-million special line credit tourism stakeholders. also launch econom recoveri strategi rest 5 pillar namely: support busi recovery, creat busi climat growth, improv govern efficiency, strengthen product sector agriculture, grow emerg economy.",1
0,"worthi note that, pre-covid-19 beliz contend econom declin caus ongo climat impact prolong drought impact primari sector output, along continu challeng caus sargassum inund marin spaces. septemb 4, hurrican nana struck us inflict anoth blow beleagu agricultur sector.",1
0,pandem emphas interconnect collect vulnerability. imper intern commun come togeth ralli behind vision charter advanc digniti human be larger freedom.,1
0,"wetlands, area larger mani european countries, california, face problems. larg fire inevit consequ high local temperatur coupl accumul decay organ matter.",1
0,"2019, brazil victim crimin seepag venezuelan oil, sold without proper control, result seriou damag environ major loss fish tourism industries.",1
0,"oper welcome, led brazilian ministri defense, receiv almost 400,000 venezuelan displac result deep polit econom crisi bred venezuelan dictatorship.",1
0,power imbal caus world lose equilibrium.,1
0,"refus power help reviv economi — whether moratoria refinancing, even access concession loan grant — caus us greater econom hardship.",1
0,"anoth instanc one-sided global financi system organis limit membership engag univers “blacklisting”, correspond bank relationship unilater withdrawn. small countri blacklist dare exert sovereign right creat taxat system forc compet rule voic setting.",1
0,arbitrari engag countri like barbado must cease. done without knowledg involvement. contrari law natur justice. combin factor push countri back state postcoloni penury.,1
0,"iron countri repres today provid advic small island develop state increas resilience, take decis area significantli undermin efforts. secret greatest contributor climat crisi bear consequ proportionally, consequ incentiv decreas greenhous ga emissions.",1
0,"manifest “perfect storm” undoubtedli derail limit progress posit make implement 2030 agenda, jeopardis abil meet sustain develop goal within agre timeframe. all, exact horrif toll million famili worldwid alreadi taken close million lives.",1
0,"mr. president, barbados’ recoveri econom social impact covid-19 pandem slow painful. resuscit economi balanc act reopen tourism-rel servic air travel, ensur popul remain safe. given import global tourism industry, firm view worker sector prioritis among frontlin worker earmark receiv approv vaccinations. would put hundr million peopl back work stimul largest global econom driver,",1
0,"act uniti manag keep number case low. today, record 261 posit cases, 192 recovered. mortal covid-19 remain zero.",1
0,"us, sdg reson well development plan base principl gnh. reason, bhutan track becom earli achiev sdgs, shown voluntari review 2018.",1
0,"see need review whole sdgs, pandem also derail us ldc graduat track. current plan design help bhutan graduat ldc categori 2023. everyth changed, focu shift save live livelihood challeng pose pandemic.",1
0,"process, depriv valu human connection, know, huge psycho-soci impact. may realiz today bear brunt line. could impact entir gener children mind today.",1
0,"way, celebr un’ next milestone, 100th anniversary, would achiev 100 per cent literaci rate, empow everyon relev skill knowledg meaning life.",1
0,would also enabl everyon 100 per cent digit compet help deriv advantag technolog corner world.,1
0,"theme time remind valu signific multilater ultim framework everlast solut exist emerg global challeng attained. indeed, world much safer secur place nation work togeth toward collect respons complex threat time.",1
0,"end, govern introduc econom polici reform stimul fast-track transform mani sectors. action aim creat enabl environ privat sector develop pursuit goal 8, is, decent work econom growth.",1
0,"botswana acceler access inclusive, equit qualiti educ through, amongst interventions, implement educ train sector strateg plan. etssp, it’ commonli known, aim transform learn ensur access, retention, promot life-long learn skill development.",1
0,"note pandemic, estim 783 million peopl live extrem poverti globally. however, june 2020, world bank project pandem could push addit 71 million peopl extrem poverti 2020, therefor revers gain made recent decades.",1
0,"part, govern continu empow uplift poor varieti poverti erad programmes. programm equip enabl beneficiari start micro small scale enterpris better survival. programm uplift beneficiari poverti sustain incom generation, creation sustenance.",1
0,"stated, covid-19 detriment botswana’ economy. suspens intern travel global econom meltdown dealt heavi blow two mainstay economi  tourism diamond mining. repeat lockdown covid-19 protocol also significantli reduc econom activity.",1
0,"keen interest botswana also support given countri special situat least develop countri  landlock develop countri  small island develop state vulner categori unit nation member states. landlock country, botswana has, pandem experienc challeng cross-bord movement good servic due border closures.",1
0,"though juri still reforms, deleg observ manag reform brought improv organisation’ crisi response. nonetheless believ remain done, encourag gener assembl princip organ step reform efforts.",1
0,"botswana, semi-arid countri errat rainfal frequent droughts, attach great import goal 13  climat action . climat condit affect livelihood imped food production. moreover, recent drought result dri water sourc includ wildlife. contribut anim death escal human-wildlif conflict.",1
0,"order strengthen mitig adaptation, govern develop climat chang respons polici nation adapt plan. work civil society, academia, intern partners, acceler implement commit pari agreement.",1
0,"current chair sadc organ politics, defenc secur cooperation, botswana commit ensur close attent given imper combat terror secur threat order enhanc peac stabil sadc region.",1
0,"appreci support provid unit nation offic counter- terror partners, enhanc capac botswana’ newli establish counter terror analysi fusion agenc order enabl us mitig exposur menace.",1
0,"despit government’ willing respect commit contain polit agreement, massiv violat intern humanitarian law human right continu perpetr civilian popul certain arm group signatori agreement. group also continu rearm illeg means, therebi undermin peac nation reconcili process, guarante social cohesion.",1
0,"base moral legal respons toward peoples, affirmed, continu reaffirm, uncondit dialogu base common interest respect sovereignti state way solv crisi start illeg blockade, whose solut start lift blockade.",1
0,"desir peac achiev israel’ full commit term refer decis intern legitimaci accept arab upon arab peac initi based, israel tri circumv act palestinian caus exist. arrang base term refer achiev peace, even call peace. may intent solut palestinian cause, achiev comprehensive, last peace.",1
0,"linger palestinian caus without solution, israel’ continu settlement creation pretext ground without deter pose biggest question mark credibl intern commun institutions.",1
0,"call intern commun —especi secur council — assum legal respons oblig israel lift sieg gaza strip, put peac process back track credibl negoti base intern resolut force, address final statu issues, end occup within specifi time frame establish independ palestinian state within 1967 borders, east jerusalem capital, end isra occup arab territories.",1
0,"context endeavor prepar appropri condit reach peac respond econom humanitarian difficulti face brother palestine, we, coordin intern partners, continu provid humanitarian development aid cater urgent longterm need besieg gaza strip, addit increas contribut unrwa.",1
0,"base firm belief resolv disput peac means, grace god thank him, state qatar’ mediat effort culmin sign peac agreement unit state taliban movement, doha, 29 february, 2020, abl make exchang prison govern afghanistan taliban movement success discuss held doha last month.",1
0,"efforts, along intern partners, conven intra-afghan peac negoti began 12th month, doha, culmin success, ensu success depend afghan brother themselves. exert effort cooper intern commun facilit dialogue, hope peac stabil soon prevail across afghanistan, everyon decid complet renounc violence, accept diversity, differ equal citizenship country.",1
0,"occasion, reiter firm stanc state qatar way end syrian crisi polit solut base geneva communiqu  1 , implement secur council resolut 2254  2015 . state qatar also affirm continue, intern community, support effort realiz justic hold account perpetr atrocities, war crime crime human commit syria.",1
0,"rage war sisterli yemen still demolish urban build yemen, wipe necess life, threaten secur region, affirm way resolv crisi negoti yemeni accord outcom nation dialogue, gulf initiative, relev secur council resolutions, particularly, resolut 2216  2015 . affirm firm posit uniti yemen territori integrity.",1
0,"reiter call relev countri facilit effort brother sudan remov name sudan list state sponsor terrorism, difficulti hardship face taken toll them. context, qatar stood brother provid support counter flood sever inflict seriou damag facil peopl well, call upon intern commun provid kind necessari support counter natur disasters.",1
0,"regard libyan issue, reiter welcom ceasefir agreement activ polit process accord skhirat agreement outcomes, achiev comprehens polit settlement maintain libyan sovereignty, territori integr independence, stem bloodsh peopl preserv wealth. benefici understand imposs impos militari regim forc libya.",1
0,"terror remain one promin challeng face world pose real threat intern peac security, imped achiev sustain develop peoples. state qatar spare effort activ particip intern region effort address phenomenon tackl roots, especi support educ million children, youth women creat job opportun young men.",1
0,"field develop assist develop countri least develop countries, support countri affect neg impact climat change, qatar fulfil pledg provid contribut $100 million support least develop countri small island develop state deal climat change.",1
0,"romania remain firm support multilater rules-bas intern order, un core. romania commit cooper safer futur all, promot sustain development, respect human rights, peac security. futur want!",1
0,"covid-19 pandem demonstrated, more, global challeng requir common action, solidar cooperation. must show commit “a quantum leap collect engagement”, mention secretary-general. multilater also essenti har opportun build back better greener, toward inclus sustain economies, societi „no one left behind”. order achiev that, must continu reform un, make effective, effici fit purpose. unit nation need!",1
0,"pandem prompt increas divis across world, well attempt weaken democracy. however, period facilit spread disinform mislead information, possibl vector spread violenc extremism.",1
0,"therefor pivot moment transform crisi new opportun revit secur peac agenda, strong emphasi conflict prevent consolid peac processes. effort context peac oper must continu ever greater efficiency. also support greater integr principl respons protect action project focus prevention.",1
0,"convinc cooper unit nation region organ essenti instrument consolid secur develop world. alway concern multitud unresolv conflict black sea region, affect stabil cooper neighbourhood. continu promot cooper unit nation variou organ region, includ current chairman black sea econom cooperation.",1
0,"decad action sdgs, must also work togeth protect planet ecosystems. need resort ration use planetari resourc pursu econom growth, full respect biodiversity. biodivers summit offer uniqu opportun show ambit acceler action biodivers sustain development.",1
0,"firm action also need order tackl climat environment emergencies. rise sea level catastroph weather events, longer afford ignor risk climat change. duti futur gener turn glasgow cop26 success achiev goal pari agreement.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem also take toll human rights, deepen pre exist inequ enhanc vulnerabilities. must ensur comprehens consist approach human right core effort econom recovery.",1
0,"digit technolog central almost everi aspect respons pandem prerequisit achiev sdgs. develop use digit technologies, includ artifici intelligence, base ethic principles, must human-centred. promot protect human rights, democracy, good governance, account rule law must provid offlin online. thu need univers polit commit digit security. un galvan digit cooper global level contribut mobil actor ensur open, secur afford access digit infrastructur all.",1
0,"digit sector romania amount 6 per cent gdp import driver growth innovation. see digit opportun everyon key compon econom development. romania’ digit transform aim make countri less bureaucratic, resilient, attract foreign investment. also potenti turn romania region innov hub.",1
0,"covid-19 crisi proven disinform hostil action inform environ threaten intern human security, effect addressed. crisi demonstr crucial need access reliable, accur science-bas information. thus, confirm role free, independent, account pluralist media strengthen transparency, account trust.",1
0,"romania pay particular attent youth, especi far educ profession train concerned. such, doubl number scholarship offer foreign citizen 2020-2021 academ year, particular attent africa. believ ensur continu youth training, contribut materi “build back better” principle.",1
0,"conclusion, un need must ensur effect multilater mobil stakeholders, governments, financi busi sectors, academia civil society. order find sustain solut current global challenges, must hear voic society, women girls, youth children, well peopl vulner situations.",1
0,"also experienc whole new challeng coronaviru pandemic. diseas directli affect million peopl claim import thing: live hundr thousand people. quarantines, border closures, numer seriou troubl citizen almost state constitut present-day realia. especi difficult elderli peopl who, due necessari restrictions, abl hug love ones, children grandchildren week even months.",1
0,"way elabor solut work together, import task un g20 states, well lead inter state organ integr associ also go tough time due pandem impact need fundament new horizon scope development.",1
0,"general, free world trade barriers, bans, restrict illegitim sanction would great help revit global growth reduc unemployment. accord experts, total partial reduct global employ second quarter year equal loss 400 million jobs, utmost prevent unemploy grow long-term ensur peopl return work support famili instead find imprison poverti prospect life.",1
0,"pandem also pinpoint seri ethical, technolog humanitarian matters. instance, advanc digit technolog help quickli reorgan education, trade services, well set distant learn onlin cours peopl differ ages. artifici intellig assist doctor make accur time diagnos find best treatment.",1
0,"however, like innovation, digit technolog tend spread uncontrol and, like convent weapons, fall hand variou radic extremist region conflict zones, also quit prosper countries, thu engend enorm risks.",1
0,"believ un prestig could strengthen enhanc role humanitarian human compon multilater bilater relations, name people-to-peopl youth exchanges, cultur ties, social educ programs, well cooper sports, science, technology, environ health protection.",1
0,"build scientific, industri clinic experi doctor russia promptli develop rang test system medicin detect treat coronavirus, well regist world’ first vaccine, “sputnik-v.”",1
0,critic item today’ agenda. issu environment protect climat chang remain focu joint efforts.,1
0,"disput differences, time misunderstand even distrust part colleagues, consist advanc constructive, unit initiatives, first arm control strengthen treati regim exist area. includ prohibit chemical, biolog toxin weapons.",1
0,"believ reciproc step specif issu would provid sound basi launch serious, profound dialogu entir rang factor affect strateg stability. would aim achiev comprehens arrangements, shape solid foundat intern secur architectur would build prior experi field line exist futur politico-militari technolog realia.",1
0,"well awar fact secur issu well problem discuss jubile un gener assembl call consolid effort basi valu unit us, share memori lesson history, spirit allianc guid anti-hitl coalit particip found possibl rais differ ideolog prefer sake victori peac nation earth.",1
0,"fulli realiz responsibility, russia suggest conven g5 summit. would aim reaffirm key principl behavior intern affairs, elabor way effect address today’ burn issues. encourag partner support initiative. expect hold summit — person — soon epidemiolog situat make possible.",1
0,75th anniversari unit nation fall moment uncommon peril peopl planet. covid pandem claim nearli one million live push hundr million unexpect hardship. time doubt hesitation. tool meet test prevail. mark import anniversari year.,1
0,"twenty-f year ago, world confer women beij chart transform agenda gender equality, continu guid us. empower women made us safer wealthier. true gender equal still attain country.",1
0,"five year ago, pari agreement climat chang signed. implement framework slow pace global warm give economi time adapt new technologies.",1
0,"kigali amend montreal protocol, adopt four year ago, play major role reduc consumpt hydrofluorocarbons. half member state ratifi kigali amendment, force, call upon remaind ratifi soon possible.",1
0,"five year ago, sustain develop goal adopted, defin ambit integr global development. ten year remain 2030, let’ deceiv difficult meet target time. countries, especi africa, alreadi off-track 2020. pandem disrupt growth revenu collect around world, like sever year come.",1
0,"creation access covid tool accelerator, includ covax global vaccin facility, critic import africa. ensur equit access vaccines, therapeutics, diagnost speed end pandem everyone.",1
0,"pandem highlight import resili nation health system strong domest health financing. african union champion agenda among member states, emphasi spend more, spend better. goal africa leverag resourc reinforc impact global health partnerships, global fund gavi.",1
0,"come decades, prosper close link digit literaci access high-spe connectivity. secretary-general’ roadmap digit cooper compel farsighted, build work broadband commiss initiatives.",1
0,"success depend strengthen institutions, nation international, includ work scientists, innovators, creators. question funding. posit human valu citizen govern invest institutions, must accountable.",1
0,"outset, would like extend sincerest congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session un gener assembly, wish success fulfil duties.",1
0,"today, world face tremend challeng form covid-19 pandem health, humanitarian, econom repercuss compel us stand togeth order face common challeng world. presid g20, kingdom coordin intern effort hold leaders’ summit last march coordin global effort combat pandem curb humanitarian econom impacts. summit, kingdom announc pledg $500 million support effort combat pandemic, reinforc emerg prepared responses. kingdom continu promot global respons effort confront pandem address repercussions.",1
0,"however, middl east afflict major secur polit challeng undermin secur peopl stabil countries.",1
0,"region suffer mani decad attempt forc extrem chao seek impos malign view polici order hijack countries’ present future, pay heed aspir peopl region development, prosperity, peace. kingdom, chose path futur vision 2030 aspir creat robust economi commun interact surround contribut activ progress civil humankind.",1
0,"kingdom’ hand extend iran peac posit open attitud past decades, avail. kingdom receiv sever iran’ presid senior officials, among kingdom’ effort seek way build relat base good neighborli mutual respect. kingdom welcom intern effort deal iran’ nuclear program, time again, entir world wit iranian regim exploit effort order intensifi expansionist activities, creat terrorist networks, use terrorism, process squander resourc wealth iranian peopl purpos expansionist project produc noth chaos, extremism, sectarianism.",1
0,"iranian regime, line hostil attitude, target oil facil kingdom last year blatant violat intern laws. so, assault intern peac secur prove disregard stabil global economi secur oil suppli intern markets. iranian regim also continues, surrogates, target kingdom, launching, date, 300 ballist missil 400 arm drone  uav  stark violat unsc resolut 2216  2015  2231  2015 . experi iranian regim taught us partial solut appeas stop threat intern peac security. comprehens solut firm intern posit requir ensur fundament solut iranian regime’ attempt obtain weapon mass destruction, ballist missil program, interfer intern affair countries, sponsorship terrorism.",1
0,"iranian regim interf yemen support coup carri surrogate, houthi militia, legitim government. led political, economic, humanitarian crisi fratern peopl yemen suffering. coup threat secur countri region sea lane vital global economy. furthermore, houthi militia imped flow humanitarian aid yemeni people. also obstruct effort reach polit solut yemen reject effort deescal situation, latest ceasefir announc made coalit support legitimaci yemen last april respons un’ request, order allow effort combat covid-19 pandem yemen proceed. instead, continu target civilian yemen kingdom.",1
0,"achiev success battl terror extremism, must intensifi joint effort face challeng comprehensively. includ combat financ terror extremism. kingdom support mani intern entiti contribut reinforc joint effort combat challenge. kingdom support un counter-terror center contribut $110 million establish global center combat extremist ideolog  etid  riyadh. kingdom also host intern terrorist financ target center.",1
0,"terrorist extremist organ find fertil ground sprout spread countri sectarian divis weak collaps state institutions. intend win battl terrorism, must waiver face countri sponsor terror sectarianism, must stand firmli face countri promot transnat extremist ideologies, reli fals polit slogan hide extremist, chaotic, destruct nature.",1
0,"also stand fratern peopl lebanon experienc humanitarian catastroph result explos port beirut, occur result hegemoni hizbollah, terrorist organ affili iran, decis make process lebanon forc arms. led disabl constitut state institut lebanon. order fratern peopl lebanon achiev aspir security, stability, prosperity, terrorist organ must disarmed.",1
0,"podium call intensif global effort confront great challeng face human area climat change, poverty, organ crime, spread epidemics, challeng requir strengthen cooper work bright futur gener come may live stability, peace, security.",1
0,"therefore, rostrum call enhanc cooper strengthen collect action mechan that, together, may face challeng pose spread covid-19 pandemic. must strive achiev session’ theme: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",1
0,"sudan current experienc except circumst due impact unpreced torrenti rain floods, exacerb challeng alreadi face. flood nile led sever loss human life properti throughout area adjac it. great damag also caus rain flood vast areas, includ partial total collaps ten thousand homes. would like, regard, pay tribut friendli brotherli countri demonstr solidar provid gener support respons catastrophe.",1
0,"assembl aware, sudan undergo transit phase follow gloriou popular revolut injustice, tyranni socioeconom decline. transit govern address broad aspir sudanes peopl tri utmost tackl new challeng import establish peac econom reform.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem complic situat transit government, inherit crippl economi weak devast servic sectors, particularli health sector, neglect decades.",1
0,"adopt constitut declar 17 august 2019 constitut second stage victori revolution, make peac put end war top prioriti transit government. basi upon juba process launched. simpli negoti two war parties, past, rather process dialogu partner revolut order achiev peac cessat war, well address root caus conflict. juba peac agreement sign 3 october.",1
0,"context, wish note revolut govern hasten remov restrict obstacl hinder deliveri humanitarian aid need conflict areas. within framework, part nation plan improv humanitarian action ensur need popul met, state adopt project find sustain solut improv live condit displac persons, accord provis intern instrument law govern humanitarian work",1
0,"econom front, econom situat continu increasingli weigh citizen result econom distort caus defunct regime. furthermore, profound reform set implement, aim remedi structur defect sudanes economy, indirectli increas cost living. reform pain arduous, necessari long term. order mitig effects, start implement social programm support famili provid direct financi aid poorest famili aim mitig effect reforms. programm also aim support product provid direct support agricultur labour group product rural urban areas. govern also support establish cooper project implement commod programme, project aim provid basic commod citizens.",1
0,country’ govern attach great import issu rule law nation intern level make continu effort address nation law view develop ensur consist intern standard conventions. effort also consist multipl initi undertaken local relev author area build strengthen nation capac empow compet bodi fulfil respons task accord constitut relat laws. process achiev rule law nation level respons state governments.,1
0,"sudan continu activ contribut support stabil polit secur situat countri african continent, especi countri region, activ membership region organ african union, igad, intern confer great lake region, sahel sahara. occasion, would like express appreci great posit role african union play confront coronaviru pandem africa.",1
0,"sudan express solidar victim terror around world countri suffer terrorist attacks. renew reject condemn terror form manifest cooperation, access effect contribut intern bilater effort terror financing. commit implement relev intern resolut issu secur council.",1
0,"sudan, despit chang caus blood martyr decad oppression, injustic backwardness, despit achiev made brief span gloriou revolution, transit period still face number daunt challeng must overcom continu support intern commun friend order complet implement government’ plans. aim address econom hardship countri go through, foremost among waiv sudan’ debt grant soft loans, well commit friend fulfil pledg announc sudan partnership confer berlin. that, name sudan must remov list countri sponsor terrorism, countri return fulli intern commun forc interrupt three decades. context, wish commend recent step taken us administr us congress support transit government, includ determin acceler step drop sudan list terrorist countries.",1
0,"mind, address three major topics. first, speak imper find collect unit respons global health emerg brought covid-19 pandemic.",1
0,"year 2020 undoubtedli rememb dark time, indel mark pandemic, whose devast effect everi aspect live demonstr — need demonstr — collect vulnerability.",1
0,"addition, must work togeth ensur avail access essenti health-car services, particular qualiti primari care, key achiev 2030 agenda sustain development, especi sustain develop goal 3.",1
0,"devast impact crisi economi indisputable! collaps econom growth consequ dearth sourc foreign exchang shock commod prices, well declin exports, invest migrant remittances, put world economi crisi situat like seen sinc 1930s.",1
0,"therefore, order ensur proper recoveri economi ensur global sociopolit stability, need focu intern solidar cooperation.",1
0,"regard, secretary-general’ call large-scal multilater respons marshal financi resourc least 10 per cent world’ gdp deserv full support, show us way effect address global challenges.",1
0,"admittedly, africa continu face polit secur challenges, hinder sustain develop efforts.",1
0,"sahel, example, terror violent extrem found fertil ground, result death toll, destruct infrastructur looting, therebi maintain environ fear. backdrop polit institut instability, poverty, exclusion, porou border illiteracy, among others.",1
0,youth contin — 60 per cent popul 24 year age — immens natur resourc vital repres tremend potenti term econom social transformation. time therefor come serious look africa light.,1
0,determin combat covid-19 pandem must also inspir us fight effect climat chang safeguard biodiversity.,1
0,"indeed, need recal climat chang devast effect populations, particularli increas poverty, rural exodus, social exclus intercommun tension natur resources.",1
0,"order address covid-19 pandemic, seneg launch econom social resili programm fund amount 1,000 billion cfa francs, $1.6 billion.",1
0,"programme, incorpor sdgs, priorit health pharmaceut sovereignty, resili popul macroeconom financi stability.",1
0,"within framework, instruct head state, govern launch 500 billion cfa franc invest plan period 2020 2024 ensur health-car system’ resili sustainability.",1
0,faith human solidar justic drive seneg role chair committe exercis inalien right palestinian people.,1
0,"therefore, sustain develop aspir futur gener must centr share human harmoni law nature.",1
0,first time un gener assembly’ 75-year histori world leader gather person. decis proceed high level week larg virtual testament commit multilater un.,1
0,"covid-19 becom defin crisi time. global death toll continu rise, global economy, trade, travel sever disrupted. million job hundr thousand live lost.",1
0,"world face period prolong turmoil. multilater system confront nationalism, xenophobia, reject free trade global econom integration, bifurc technolog suppli chains. threat new. covid-19 fact acceler intensifi preexist trends. protection unilater action ultim self defeating.",1
0,"first, modern suppli chain complex. extrem difficult complet onshor product key item sinc materi expertis elsewher alway need multipl step process. mani countri experienc disrupt flow essenti good lockdowns. suppli chain base “just-in-time” effici review basi “just-in-case”.",1
0,"second, bifurc shrink global pool knowledg reduc opportun share benefit research innovation. countri open share scientif knowledg abl produc test kit quickli pandem earli phase. prime minist said global vaccin summit last june, need vaccin multilateralism. need greater intern cooper ensur equit univers access covid-19 vaccin",1
0,"third, breach contractu oblig export critic good movement peopl erod trust nations.",1
0,"path post-covid-19 “new normal” linear. stage way, countri need balanc public health concern econom social concerns, make trade-off base uniqu nation circumstances. continu intern cooper key overcom devast impact pandem rebuilding. need build greater trust, need learn one another. also need cooper establish safe protocol order re-start travel again.",1
0,"multilater system advanc interest small states. larg nation also benefit act multilater institut gain polit legitimacy. benefit peaceful, stabl prosper global environment. multilater institut provid avenu countri pool idea work togeth deal common challeng face humanity, includ covid-19 now, also essenti us advanc share interests.",1
0,"sever short- medium-term challeng need overcome. first, need defeat covid-19 together. need understand none us, nation larg small, safe us safe together. need global cooperation, less. ensur medic suppli scientif collabor continu flow across borders, need intensifi exchang inform infect protocols, hope resum semblanc “normal” life, includ resumpt intern travel, safely.",1
0,"context, pursuit vaccin multilater critic ensur univers equit access covid-19 vaccine, maximis global health impact eventu vaccine. singapor switzerland work thirteen like-mind partner friend covid 19 vaccin global access facility. covax, short. covax facil seek reduc risk facilit equit access vaccin nations.",1
0,"continu support world health organisation’   effort formul respons covid-19 facilit vaccin development. postpandemic, may necessari review process improv further, now, focu immedi prioriti overcom pandemic.",1
0,"second, need work togeth rebuild commun institutions. immedi term, need help lost famili members, lost livelihood educ interrupted. also consid way tackl inequ covid-19 expos case exacerbated. need build equit societies.",1
0,"hard over-emphasis open, rules-bas multilater trade system foundat sustain global recovery. system allow countri trade good servic mutual benefici ways. rais hundr million peopl poverty. aftermath covid-19, look way support strengthen system make work better future. also need rebuild safe reliabl transport network facilit resumpt peopl mobility.",1
0,"third, rebuild, must continu import work increas resili meet challeng pose digit revolution, cybersecur threats, climat change, transboundari pollution.",1
0,"shall focu today challeng pose specif digit revolut climat change. must har new digit technolog benefit societi whilst mitig possibl neg impact. covid-19 acceler deploy artifici intelligence, robotics, digit payments, e-govern services, remot work.",1
0,"climat change, pari agreement establish import global consensu action climat change. must lose sight goal preserv planet futur generations. covid-19 show inextric link well-b health one planet environ envelop us. irrefut respect biodivers wildlif essenti humankind’ health existence. countri therefor align recoveri effort longterm climat goals.",1
0,"un secretary-gener alreadi initi essenti work. reform un gear toward meet new challenges, also promot forg consensu amongst member state emerg issues. need continu emphasi longstand issu like support small island develop state least develop countries.",1
0,"need concurr revitalis gener assembl make genuin attempt reform secur council. intern governance, ever before, need representative, inclusive, open. need take account wide spectrum view acknowledg rich divers global community. un secretary-general’ abil take current futur challeng also depend polit financi commit member states. thu essenti continu support.",1
0,"likewise, multilater institutions, world trade organis  wto , need reform well. wto neutral arbit intern trade disput mandat monitor enforc intern agre trade laws. singapore, strong support rule base multilater trade system, believ valu wto, brought decad prosper us. however, wto’ rule design agricultur manufacturing- base world economy, today urgent need reform. world need appropri rule services, especi digit servic intellectu property, prepar digit age unfold front us.",1
0,"must seiz opportun un’ 75th anniversari present current covid-19 pandem reinvigor rules-bas multilater system. chanc collect recreat condit inclus econom growth envis 2030 agenda sustain development. need strengthen collect abil respond futur shocks, covid-19 clear present exampl shock, need abl respond multilater system.",1
0,"behalf govern people, may take opportun congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. wealth experi serv organ well, lead us agenda, particularli unpreced challeng times, world navig way global pandem caus covid-19. let assur solomon island support cooper tenur office.",1
0,"outset, allow me, behalf govern peopl solomon islands, offer sincerest condol lost love one coronavirus. stand solidar all, sad times.",1
0,"theme chosen 75th session render us time opportun again, turn eye toward strength multilater address multipl complex challeng world face today.",1
0,"space months, covid-19 result 30 million confirm case covid-19, includ 900,000 deaths, accord latest offici world health organ statistics. health sector viru remain novelti mani scientif medic profession worldwid such, long-term health repercuss recov either unknown poorli understood.",1
0,public kept inform viru talk back show covid-19 oversight committee. also inform public weekli address nation broadcast live air televised. ensur peopl kept inform step govern undertak protect country. govern continu focu build necessari health infrastructur within hospit prepar accommod person may contract virus.,1
0,"addition, also in-countri test capacity. possibl assist people’ republ china australia, may add manifest theme. said, put place standard oper procedur differ sector guid us deal global pandemic. object two-fold. number one prioriti protect countri keep viru breach borders. second object keep economi afloat. confid viru breach border contain manag quarantin stations.",1
0,"covid-19 brought solomon island closer partners. made new friends, latest “philippin red cross”, fantast work test look student manila. grate excel work red cross continu nationals.",1
0,"covid-19 close border neg impact global economy. solomon island exception, go difficult period, however, launch econom stimulu packag reset boost economy. let thank partner support econom initiative.",1
0,"also launch develop bank solomon island aim provid sustain financi servic target develop rural areas, especi small medium enterpris primarili engag commerc industries.",1
0,"whilst deal pandem global proportions, solomon island continu battl increment effect climat chang neg impact livelihoods, secur wellb solomon islanders. climat chang result chang weather pattern caus anomali weather event epic proportions. additionally, climat chang result warm global temperatur melt ice cap caus sea level rise. sea level rise abnorm weather event wreak havoc infrastructur home mention threaten food secur lives. earlier year, experienc traumat effect tropic cyclon harold. allow thank develop partner step assist us disaster.",1
0,"solomon island part, remain commit reduc carbon footprint doubl nation determin contribut ongo work tina hydropow project. 15-megawatt hydropow project reduc relianc fossil fuel 70 per cent. despit challeng brought covid-19, effort project commiss 2024 remain track continu call develop partner remain us steadi trajectory.",1
0,"wish remind us all, collect effort combat coronavirus, must lose sight need address ongo challeng brought climat change. reiter government’ call action greater mean implement reduc greenhous ga emissions. furthermore, call state set ambiti nation determin contributions. let us adher scienc tell us strive maintain global temperatur increas 1.5 degre celsius.",1
0,"graduat categori least develop countri import mileston develop trajectori develop country. solomon island transit phase graduat schedul graduat 2024. however, time solomon island underw triennial review, pass vulner criterion. vulner becom glaringli obviou covid-19 exacerb preexist challeng face solomon island made pathway toward sustain graduat smooth transit extrem difficult.",1
0,"solomon island present first ever voluntari nation review report implement agenda 2030 juli year. despit technolog challenges, abl highlight achiev made date. solomon island continu see increas number children enrol formal educ system. secondly, proud establish nation financ framework develop underpin financ implement sustain develop goals.",1
0,report also highlight challeng face term health sector particularli rate non-communic diseas cases. seven ten death solomon island caus non-communic diseases. remain largest singl caus death country.,1
0,"allow conclud commend theme year’ gener assembl session. could come critic time, find face deadliest pandem affect modern world horrend ways. mani live tragic lost mani continu affect ongo onslaught. may take time paus reflect, viru chang live look way collabor togeth allevi impacts.",1
0,"continu confront problem world face  climat change, deterior health planet coronaviru  must rememb address collect action everi one us. old african proverb say ‘if wish go fast, go alone. wish go far, go together’. time us act collect address need everyon includ vulner among us! togeth togeth go far.",1
0,"outset, let also, behalf govern peopl sierra leone, express heartfelt deep condol member state unit nation loss live due covid-19 pandemics. salut selfless frontlin respond global emergency.",1
0,"also applaud adoption, assembl secur council, variou covid-19-focus resolut well initi secretary-gener antonio guterr aim promot global solidar cooper fight covid-19 address impact live livelihood long term.",1
0,"global family, collect commit multilater effect tackl covid-19 pandem meaning address prevail univers challeng poverty, hunger, diseases, natur disasters, climat change, terrorism, human right violations, cybersecurity, transnat organ crime.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem continu disrupt destroy live livelihood also pose substant risk intern peac security. especi countri conflict emerg conflict, experienc humanitarian crises, weak fragil economi peacebuild post-war state-build could undermin reversed.",1
0,bring current polit crisi mali relat insurg sahel grave concern respond urgent provid unambigu support ongo effort initi econom commun west african state  ecowa .,1
0,"given magnitud impact covid-19 persist diseas burdens, aim invest health servic deliveri systems, sustain robust post covid-19 recoveri process. therefor seek addit grants, access financ technic assist develop partners, budget support, deliv much-need fiscal space.",1
0,"empower women girl central mygovernment’ medium-term nation develop plan. establish standalon ministri gender children’ affairs, develop nation gender equal women’ empower policy, support entrepreneurship econom inclusion,impl affirm polici women girl sectorsfrom educ agriculture, promot women’ health reduc matern child mortality, toughen sexual offenc laws, introduc one stop centr rape sexual offenc model courts.",1
0,"increas invest purpos infrastructur gener econom product improv standard living. construct resurfac roads, expand access carbon-neutr energi off-grid locations, extend ict penetration, improv access potabl water sanit facilities.",1
0,launch mitig protect strategi forestal advers effect climat chang especi vulner populations. urg intern cooper urgent implement pari agreement climat change.,1
0,"chair g7+ group countri bring togeth countri affect conflict fragility, sierra leon remain commit foster peaceful, just, inclus societies. among local action sierra leon taken foster goal ramp fight corrupt prepar establish perman commiss peac nation cohesion. follow pledg made 74th session august body, expung 55-year old law criminalis sediti libel. work close journalists, civil society, women’ groups, stakehold group nurtur strengthen democracy.",1
0,"grow broad support common african posit evid recent intergovernment negoti member state express affirm call correct histor injustic done africa. vein, would like encourag assembl address long-stand injustic adopt africa’ demand outlin ezulwini consensu sirt declaration. look forward construct engag build progress made past order achiev comprehens reform secur council session.",1
0,"sierra leon reiter commit multilater effort gear toward total elimin coloni form manifestation, support adopt decad plan action. remain true fundament principl unit nation fit purpose, becom absolut necessari releg chapter coloni histori within period 2021- 2030. global paradigm engagement, partnership, multilateralism, mutual respect aspir view peopl must prevail.",1
0,"let conclude, mr. president, reiter sierra leone’ call establish resili healthcar infrastructur servic curtail protect peopl risk covid-19. way intern commun reestablish confid stabil financi market creat right environ support global busi trade, investment, job creation. must put back track progress toward achiev sustain develop goals.",1
0,"pandem alreadi claim 1 million live — million lost dreams, million peopl mourn death love one million live forev changed. must continu work prevent number increasing. god grant prayer them.",1
0,"year ago gener assembly, mention urgent need chang format said fail so, assembl would becom irrelevant. subsequently, format gener assembl chang slightly, changed. chang caus histor pandemic, changed. result change? assembl becom even irrelevant. year becom irrelev relev even discussed.",1
0,"thank govern peopl unit states, help us transform public system 31 intens care unit one 1,000 multifunct units, send us 600 respirators, time short suppli world.",1
0,"also thank state peopl japan, without whose help would never abl establish largest hospit region one advanc largest hospit treat coronaviru diseas world. forev grate deep admir govern great peopl japan, societi exemplifi give servic world.",1
0,"behalf peopl el salvador also express heartfelt thank countries, repres privat enterpris volunt throughout world help continu help us. help enabl us continu save thousand lives, term pandemic, also future. everi life save save togeth repres gener save — hundr thousand futur live stori preserv thank recent action. thank god give us opportun everyon help us that.",1
0,"never human histori mani opportun abl want do, honest creat want create. network allow us instantli connect best mind anywher world. network enabl us connect peopl interests, aspir vision world. speak individual’ perspective. imagin humankind do.",1
0,"el salvador, tri time clean hous regard problem lie ahead, but, thank god, see tangibl results. help friendli countries, succeed drastic lower insecur indicators, includ homicides, extort robberies, among others. administration, save averag nine live day murder — nine famili mourn death love one. thank god achiev much faster thought possible.",1
0,"grate theme chosen session: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. theme give member state opportun construct contribut work gener assembly. covid-19 pandem probabl one arduou challeng histori unit nations. surely, violent blow countri endur — still endur — long time. one forget. san marino among countri sever affect pandemic. viru caus death last month country, reason celebrations. san marino remain one countri suffer highest rate infect world, dramat consequ community.",1
0,immens effort need contrast health emerg global econom contract result unpreced structur challeng country. succeed re-establish previou level wealth health intern solidar tremend effort peopl,1
0,"coronaviru continu spread across world, hit one countri other, infect million people, take hundr thousand lives. moreover, covid-19 caus widespread fear future. pandem health crisis, also humanitarian secur crisis, accentu pre-exist structur problem within among nations, coronaviru assail commun around world drove global economi downturn whose long-term effect cannot yet fulli assessed. human impact lockdown suspens social econom activ disproportion felt vulner countri groups, includ indigen peoples, ethnic minorities, person disabilities, women children. inadequ health system  gap social protect  structur inequ  environment degrad  climat crisis: pandem show us fragil world. unit nation lead respons health crisis, also expand mean lifesav humanitarian assist establish instrument rapid respons socio-econom impact.",1
0,"respect, san marino welcom strateg prepared respons plan address immedi health needs, produc who, global humanitarian respons plan eas impact 63 highli vulner countries, un covid-19 respons recoveri fund, socioeconom respons recoveri middle- lower-incom countries. republ san marino support un secretary-general’ call global cease-fire, issu 23 march, urg war parti corner world pull back hostilities. moreover, countri join secretari general’ global call emphas need end violenc women everywhere, includ home.",1
0,"number verifi violat children still worri education, one priorities, still attack. particularli worri impact covid-19 vulner group children arm conflicts.",1
0,"along pandemic, draw attent challeng misinform disinform pandemic. spread “infodemic” put health risk, increas risk conflicts, violence, human right violat mass atrocities. covid-19 crisi demonstr crucial need access free, reliable, trustworthy, factual, clear science-bas information. states, region organizations, un system stakehold media workers, social media platform ngo clear role respons help peopl deal “infodemic’. countri attach great import fight disinformation. reason, organ 2019, san marino, high-level confer danger disinformation. reason, join year cross-region statement “infodemic” context covid-19 support unit nation commun respons initi “verified” campaign announc un secretari gener april.",1
0,"effect climat change, includ increasingli frequent sever weather phenomena, flood droughts, diminish fresh water resources, desertification, land degrad sea-level rise, threaten entir populations, depriv livelihoods.",1
0,"effect climat chang lead inter alia food insecurity, large- scale displacement, social tensions, exacerbating, prolong contribut risk futur conflicts. although greenhous ga emiss project drop 6 per cent 2020, air qualiti improv result travel ban econom slowdown result pandemic, global commun far track meet either 1.5 2°c target call pari agreement. decad 2010 2019 warmest decad ever. govern privat sector must acceler transit climat relationship environ make transform chang economies.",1
0,"reduct food loss wast underpin achiev sustain develop three dimens — economic, social environmental. food- relat sustain practic innov solut instrument number major delic issues, poverti alleviation, hunger erad human health. san marino deem crucial curb food loss waste, sustain product consumpt practices. order achiev this, must recognis collect relev issues, emphasis need immedi effect action. why, togeth princip andorra, san marino 2019 sponsor resolut design 29 septemb intern day awar food loss waste.",1
0,today celebr first time anniversari would like take opportun urg join us — done alreadi — aim rais awar import reduc food loss wast contribut action sustain development.,1
0,"75 year foundation, unit nation face difficult challeng history. must stop pandem succeed work together, collect effort requir renew stronger multilater cooperation.",1
0,"stronger multilater essenti want build fair, peac societies, young peopl live dignity, women opportun men, minor vulner group protected.",1
0,"assess way forward achiev agre sustain develop goal 2030 midst global covid-19 pandemic, must also re-examin futur want unit nation need attain it. covid-19 devast lesson loudest possibl wake-up call need global cooperation, effect partnership firm commit multilater confront together. covid-19 recogn borders, nationality, gender econom statu nation individu — equal victims. therefore, unifi solut must found protect everi human it.",1
0,"somalia, govern peopl work close togeth mitig worst effect covid-19 pandemic. like govern across world, priorit health citizen much possibl save lives. direct medic provis consistent, updat effect public health information, govern utmost keep popul safe possible. covid-19 cases, rise quickli earli stage pandemic, fallen steadili result government’ swift actions.",1
0,"again, success respons would possibl without effect partnership government, citizen intern partners. want pay special tribut courag duti health personnel risk live save others. also recogn patienc contribut somali privat sector, work govern keep economi functioning, provid vital servic somali peopl critic hour need.",1
0,"yet, success common effort somalia mean unscathed. accord offici statistics, 3,000 somali infect viru around 100 tragic lost live result. mani diagnos live pain suffer covid-19 other still remain vulner given weak somalia’ overstretch health system infrastructure.",1
0,"across world, economi size sever impact covid-19 vulner affect most. somalia, like everywher els world, challeng pain contract economy, job loss need continu invest essenti basic public servic protect citizen deadli virus. appreciate, huge task recov post-conflict state like somalia govern remain steadfast rise respond divers challeng lie ahead.",1
0,"reiter import confront covid-19 effect multilater action, want recogn enabl econom financi support provid somali feder govern mitig worst covid-19 econom pressur intern financi institut mani multilater institut somalia success reach decis point attain debt relief mani major intern creditors. progress toward achiev debt cancel enabl econom reforms, remain cogniz somalia’ econom futur prosper peopl close interlink rest world. regard, futur want somalia one promot greater partnership intern trade, enhanc foreign direct invest key product sector potenti feed world develop human capit creat opportun us all. unit nation need inclus global multilater platform propel idea aspir chang realiz too. covid-19 econom challeng us sustain develop goal ever realized, world must recov better, all, together.",1
0,"global crise like covid-19 pandem provid opportun renew challeng overcome. seen devast health econom impact viru feel live pain results. nation, matter well resourced, immune. yet, despit common suffer pain, fear covid-19 has, continu to, exacerb alreadi exist gulf developed, develop fragil state make un family. someth must avoid cost tackl today’ major global challenges, includ insecurity, climat change, poverti increas inequality, driver much divis discont across world, depend effect cooper multilater action bring sustain develop goal fruition.",1
0,"also success defeat menac global terror effort brave arm forc collabor amisom intern partner make world safer place. confid government’ effort continu support import intern partners, somalia confront covid-19 contribut posit multilater effort requir make world better, resili equal place all.",1
0,"conclusion, unit nation famili nation compris membership must work togeth renew partnership confront covid-19. must also continu engag posit creat inclus prosper futur want unit nation need. regard, we, somalia, reaffirm commit multilater overcom common global obstacl capit everi opportun creat better, safer equal world.your excellencies,",1
0,"topic year’ debat remind us import multilater found princip unit nations. firmli believ joint actions, mutual harmon respect, answer found face global challeng ongo pandem communic diseas covid-19.",1
0,"pandem addit emphas need close intens intern cooperation, wherebi un special agenc organizations, like world health organization, irreplac role organ respons newli occur challeng health nature, also socio-economic, polit secur dimension.",1
0,covid-19 pandem strongli confirm need necess exist strengthen role unit nations. relev forum must never questioned.,1
0,"firmli believ mutual cooperation, harmon posit mutual respect, global respons face modern plagu found.",1
0,"regard, exist situat opportun must take promot system intern coordin support.",1
0,"even though pandem shaken strongest world economies, say serbia manag keep stabl budget, well entir fiscal monetari system fulli prepar withhold assist measur economy, open potenti invest plans.",1
0,"invest huge effort order help surviv economy, firstli thank disciplin respons manag public finance. despit crisi effects, serbia excel result economi first two quarter year strong reason believ end year remain among stabl economi europe.",1
0,"awar serious complex problem relat neighbor commit resolv exclus dialogue, take consider interest interest parties.",1
0,"pleas even difficult period caus covid-19 pandem high level mutual solidar region demonstrated, great extent precis result construct proactiv relationship serbia build previou year neighbors. cooper intens region countri relat repatri citizen relat issu humanitarian medic assistance, also regular suppli goods.",1
0,"decis establish “green corridors” region use one, enabl smooth transport assistance, without delay border administr cross points.",1
0,"take opportun underlin prais construct import role administr presid unit state america donald trump play reach agreement, import signal commit find last sustain solut import issue.",1
0,"adopt sustain develop agenda 2030 well pari climat chang agreement key step face biggest challeng today — global econom instability, grow social inequ climat chang effects.",1
0,"that, unilater action provision institut self-govern pristina declar independ so-cal kosovo, un sc resolut 1244  1999  violat stabil republ serbia, also entir region, serious endangered. let remind republ serbia fulli commit find compromis solut issu kosovo metohija. polit respons one  everyth protect interest people, also region peac stability.",1
0,"like alreadi said, republ serbia within group big countries, neither territori population. but, judg cultur contribut science, countri among develop nations.",1
0,"finally, could fail express appreci mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, competence, selflessness, zeal led organization.",1
0,theme chosen 75th session gener assembl pertin current moment experienc world. convinc multilater best way us combin effort togeth mitig effect econom financi crisi covid-19 pandem impos world.,1
0,"believ multilater allow us overcom enorm challeng face world. indeed, health crisi caus covid-19 pandem ravag world shown us combin effort intern solidar help us mitig nefari worldwid impacts.",1
0,"must lose sight unceas struggl poverty. view, greatest scourg humanity, main caus famine, soil degradation, unbridl exploit natur resources, arm conflicts, popul displacements, south-north migratori flow continu toll human lives.",1
0,"therefore, take privileg opportun reaffirm support renew multilater cooper behalf peopl serve, multilateralism, solidarity, effect combat effect poverti mainten intern peac security, indispens condit inclus sustain development.",1
0,"polit militari conflict persist central african republic, eastern provinc democrat republ congo, south sudan, libya, sahel, emerg terrorist groups, action terrorist group el chebab east africa boko haram central west africa.",1
0,"concern apprehens respect flare-up violenc mozambican provinc cabo delgado, call greater intern commun involv fight tragic terrorist action region mozambique.",1
0,"economic, trade, financi embargo impos cuba mani year ago continu be, view, anoth caus major concern. reason, sao tome & princip reiter call sanction lift order allow cuba face challeng econom social develop without constraint impos unfair sanction take better advantag opportun trade relat equal foot member state organization.",1
0,"persist violent extrem must continu receiv attent detriment equal import challeng human existence, reflect sustain develop goals, combat poverty, climat change, sea piracy, among others.",1
0,"planet profoundli distress covid-19 pandem caus new coronavirus, incalcul consequ health social econom terms.",1
0,"light high mortal level devast effect disease, high rate spread, must continu use mechan multilater offer us term intern solidarity, order intensifi combat disease, deter loss human lives, relaunch econom develop process countries.",1
0,"seem indisput us reason exist unit nation mainten peac secur world, essenti foster development.",1
0,"sao tome & princip prepar graduat categori medium- incom countri decemb 2024, fact proud, reflect recognit effort countri undertaken progress achiev key area sustain development.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem is, apart human toll, turn food suppli chain upsid down, paralys economi erod consum purchas power.",1
0,"unit nation world econom situat prospect  wesp  mid 2020 report, confirm leader commun experienced, pandem unleash health econom crisi unpreced scope magnitude.",1
0,"compel us intern commun embrac multilater effect way win battl best defens futur global threats, continu seek effect mean support small vulner nations.",1
0,"time, un instrument bring world togeth defend human rights, democraci democrat institutions, uphold rule law, good governance, sustain peac secur advanc path toward realiz 17 sustain develop goals.",1
0,"surinam focu strongli gener invest busi opportunities. mainli reason administr develop act widest implement sdg number 17, promot facilit clean corrupt free public privat partnership  ppp .",1
0,"believ global strateg collabor complimentari financi — econom approach required. achiev closer partnership imf, world bank wto.",1
0,"consequently, south-south cooperation, exclus north-south relations, explor expand articul promot collect econom busi interests.",1
0,unusu gather today prove ongo covid-19 pandem chang world know it. onlin form evid adapt act.,1
0,covid-19 pandem quickli becom truli global threat. far over. alreadi learn lesson: cannot go back busi usual.,1
0,covid crisi expos weak vulnerabilities. alreadi brink poverti left poor. difficult access health care found helpless. limit access educ lost hope better future. even stabl develop state face great econom social difficulties.,1
0,"success avert crisis, need respons leadership. ultim respons govern polit leader make decis base fact knowledge, polit calcul selfish interest power. opposit — incompetence, disinform popul — fatal consequences.",1
0,"respons leadership also mean willing seeth common global interest. preserv best exist architectur intern organ regim cooperation. often driver effect solutions. know work alway perfect. instead resent defund them, need find way improv them.",1
0,"must allow crisi becom excus suppress human right liberties. must make sure limit must proportionate, time-limit legal sound. principl must appli universally.",1
0,"notabl climat change, undoubtedli greatest threat common future. expert estimate, 2100 climat chang five time deadli covid-19. abl organ creat 20 parallel team worldwid develop anti-covid vaccine, lack much need knowledge. climat change, know do. need show genuin act together, one. make real priority. let science, innovations, also solidar compass lead way.",1
0,"let' make lesson covid-19 basi action future. like 75 year ago, lesson two world war led univers commit among nation solv disput peac work together.",1
0,best mean address current global threat effect multilateralism. less multilater cooper would magnifi problem challeng face societies.,1
0,new technolog artifici intellig alreadi becom backbon daili live keep busi essenti public servic running.,1
0,slovenia share awar biodivers loss urgent global challenge.,1
0,put right clean drink water constitution. recogn preserv water resourc key element protect biodiversity.,1
0,"covid-19 crisi brought stark realiz import solidar cooper — among within multilater organizations, world health organization.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem left devast social econom consequences. live depend accur time information. full exercis right freedom expression, access public inform protect journalist key wellb societies.",1
0,"we, un institution, chang grow it. convinc best address global challeng joint action.",1
0,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nation midst global pandem — pandem place enorm pressur societies, commun families. would like express deepest condol live lost.",1
0,rare opportun build better societi — societi resilient. opportun jointli address share challenges:,1
0,"continu work industri sector achiev net-zero emissions, least within “leadership group industri transition” launch india last year’ climat summit. call ambiti nation determin contribut pari agreement. work ambiti outcom cop26 glasgow.",1
0,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations, need strengthen resolv ensur one left behind. ensur equal particip everi individual, irrespect gender sexual orientation, essenti realis 2030 agenda.",1
0,current pandem exacerb exist discrimin inequ risk sexual gender-bas violence. disproportion impact women’ girls’ access essenti health services. robust fund sexual reproduct health right must priority.,1
0,"pandem place enorm pressur abil democrat institut function seriou consequ human rights. far mani leader govern use pretext attempt silenc opposition, civil societi human right defenders.",1
0,"million peopl around world lost job livelihood pandemic. social dialogu workplac help mitig impact pandem shape solutions. need sustain transit global labour market, issu work close presid south africa, cyril ramaphosa, co-edit ilo report futur work. sweden invit countri join global deal partnership decent work inclus growth.",1
0,"pandem threat intern peac security. sweden eu strongli support implement secretary-general’ call global ceasefire. un secur council enorm responsibility. succeed mandat task up-hold intern peac security, must reform effect address current futur challenges.",1
0,"russia’ illeg annex crimea sevastopol aggress eastern ukrain constitut seriou breach intern law, challeng global secur caus human suffering. european union clear need implement minsk agreements. sweden european union condemn strongest possibl term poison russian opposit leader alexei navalny. russian govern must investig assassin attempt thoroughli transparently. respons must brought justice.",1
0,"syria, sustain peac achiev polit solut line resolut 2254  2015 . sweden recent pledg 96 million dollar crisi respons brussel 4 conference.",1
0,"part multilater disarma diplomacy, sweden — togeth 15 non-nuclear-weapon state — continu pursu stockholm initi nuclear disarmament, aim contribut success npt review conference.",1
0,"commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, proper reflect are, come going. unit nation stood lofti ideal build intern system collabor common purpose. system allow us collect call account choos conflict peace, recogn digniti equal worth people. valu everi one us input make toward end.",1
0,"though face multipl challenges, collective, press forward, slowly, steadily, forg agre system rule norm better, stronger, transpar consist ever before. result intern order overseen unparallel advanc human liberty, attain digniti amongst peoples, given rise prosper global economi sought uplift billion peopl poverty.",1
0,"common accept multilater diplomaci underpin advanc three pillar unit nations, namely, sustain development, peac secur human rights, interlink mutual reinforcing, observ respect specif mandat charter unit nations.",1
0,"continu seek solut individu manner, result impasse. organ becom necessari ever foster kind collect action today’ global challenges.",1
0,"global challeng crise tendenc either pull us togeth push us apart  true form, covid-19 crisi creat unpreced bond among countries. crisi taught remind us belong together, irrespect location, distanc time planet. time histori reflect focu must candid transform deepli explor lesson learnt therefore, rethink gener shape futur want. therefore, opportun time ask big questions, make great decis commit act solidarity.",1
0,"intens crisi demonstr glare socio-econom gap within countries. better defin expos uniqu financi human resourc endow strength, capac abil cope challenges. pandem underscor individu strength weak without collect differenti commit solidarity. reiter re-emphas live global villag therefore, need other. conclud that, without collect commit multilateralism, never accomplish ideal “decad action delivery” pinnacl 2030 agenda — leav one behind.",1
0,"make unit nation work us all, call collect commit individual, communal, national, region global levels. pandem also demonstr weak classif develop levels, jeopard mani countries’ opportun access develop financ debt restructuring, among others. reveal need revis extend countries’ success develop beyond tradit measur gross nation income, fulli consid vulnerability, particularli crise experiencing. everi country’ need must consid isolation, tackl multilater context. help us collect commit bottom- multilater help us collect progress futur want unit nation need.",1
0,"‘unit nation’, must dissuad tension nation creat play pandemic. everi public privat institut must readi promot intern cooperation, get better prepar deal futur global threat commit multilateralism. covid-19 gener strong global viewpoint peopl dread think backward inward think forward outward, hope creat world want. achiev effect all-benefit multilater build back better togeth call ensur one left behind. entail leverag exist innov partnerships, coordin responses, refrain protectionist measures, strengthen inclusion, invest technolog sustain econom social sector midst crises, among other",1
0,"regard, pleas note govern kingdom eswatini adopt numer pro-gend polici promot gender equality. femal represent posit power decision-mak compar favor within region.",1
0,"reform secur council key aspect process transform could complet without fundament reform. end, kingdom eswatini wish reiter africa’ call perman membership secur council accord ezulwini consensus.",1
0,"rare unit nation multilater test test year un’ 75th anniversary, year world grappl covid-19 pandemic.",1
0,pain lesson learn sinc outbreak pandem underscor urgent need continu collect approaches.,1
0,"say revitalis exist set-up has, despit lesson past outbreak viruses, fail respond adequ covid-19 devast consequences.",1
0,"introduc seri unpreced measur save live peopl mitig econom destruction,minimis unemploy secur workers’ incomes. ensur inclus approach factor specif need differ stakehold seychelles, consult privat sector, trade unions, civil societi inter-faith organis required.",1
0,"took us 44 year sinc seychelles’ independ attain qualiti life enjoy covid-19, 4 month covid-19 paralys tourism industri much economy.",1
0,"turn multilater theme debat  multilater recognis crucial globally-coordin respons covid-19 us emerg pandem resilient, hopefully, compassionate.",1
0,sid made heroic effort shore job unemploy grow provid social safeti net peopl respons covid-19 limit capac resourc have.,1
0,"action includ build capac small island develop state cope recov extern shock pandem like covid-19, form disasters, impact climat change.",1
0,"compact requir design new, enhanc exist financi instrument guid sid economi current crisis, creat respons system maintain gains, reinforc resili climat chang achiev sustain development.",1
0,massiv global econom restructur underway present world uniqu opportun pursu holist transform approach address numer escal global crise face make effici use resources.,1
0,recoveri effort aim take us sustain resili futur requir recognit econom recoveri depend ecolog health. reviv econom activ expens environment sustainability.,1
0,"one job seychel offer worker made redund covid-19, example, plant hundr thousand tree across islands. measur keep call world’ scientist protect natur environ costs. restor planetari health balanc human ecolog wellbeing.",1
0,adopt similar approach climat action maintain increas climat ambit context pandem prevent post-covid rebound greenhous ga emissions.,1
0,"effect climat breakdown continu impact us long we’v dealt pandemic, covid-19 present new opportun take action climat chang countri make drastic chang infrastructure, job investment.",1
0,"seychelles’ protect nearli third eez ocean conservation, sustain climat action show countries’ respons health financi crisi caus covid19 need expens natur climate.",1
0,"seychel agre need intern solidar cooper ever face worst human econom crisi lifetime, multilater work develop develop countries.",1
0,"must lose sight fact stimulu packag aim rescu economi coronaviru crisi determin shape global economi — financi stable, social inclus low-carbon economi — year come.",1
0,"go talk multilater count everyone, must deliv equit recoveri prioritis innovation, science, health, wellbeing, opportun liveabl environ countri societies.",1
0,futur multilater depend transform global respons covid 19 pandemic.,1
0,"thank all.th unit nation born second world war global consensu need maintain intern peac secur promot friendli relat nations. relat base respect equal right peopl self-determination, without resort forc threat forc territori integr polit independ nation manner inconsist unit nation principles. this? principl valu truli govern today’ intern relations? becom mere talk point polit media consumption?",1
0,"today’ imper combat pandem togeth multilater joint action, deed word alone, build equal world, better equip withstand crise achiev real sustain develop all.",1
0,"keep repeat statement terror constant danger stabil prosper across world one main threat intern peac security. unfortunately, some, many, act statements. relev secur council resolut yet find way un archiv implementation. joint action haven’t risen meet threat pose terrorism. contrary, invest in, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorist one region anoth one countri another, servic suspici agendas.",1
0,"course, come sponsor financi terrorism, current turkish regim reign supreme. turkish regim one main sponsor terror syria region. facilit passag ten thousand foreign terrorist syria continu provid form support al-nusra front affili terrorist group massacr syrians. carri ‘turkification’ forc displac polici territori occupi syria. consid collect punish million civilian reject turkish occup hasakah dozen towns, turkish regim deliber repeatedli cut city’ water supply, endang live civilians, especi covid-19 pandemic. legal terms, amount war crime crime humanity. way, crimin behavior terrorist exhibit cut water suppli million civilian damascu 2017. then, like today, self-styl human right defend even lift finger.",1
0,"violat iraq’ sovereignty, use refuge bargain chip europe, laid claim forc energi resourc mediterranean. current turkish regim becom rogu outlaw regim intern law. polici actions, threaten secur stabil whole region, must stopped.",1
0,"“i would like acknowledg leadership excel mr. matamela cyril ramaphosa, presid republ south africa chairperson african union, well african union commission. abl put continent strategi place respond pandem take time measur aim pool medic suppli member states, safeguard african economi research vaccin covid-19, inter alia.",1
0,"“the revis format year’ gener debat perfect illustration, needed, scale upheav world caus covid-19 pandemic, unfortun continu rage. invis relentless enemi caus enorm human damage, also profound impact aspect econom social life, put nation global respons capac test.",1
0,"“the highli relev theme session, ‘the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action’, fulli underlin import must attach intern cooper multilater irreplac mean address major common challeng pandemics, climat change, terrorism, poverti inequality, name few.",1
0,"“the covid-19 crisi laid bare common weak and, time, demonstr need enhanc collect effort better understand overcom global challeng benefit everi one us. opportun great famili nations, celebr seventy-fifth anniversari organ current particular context, reaffirm central place unit nation primordi role multilater intern relations.",1
0,"“the whole world current experienc devast covid-19 pandemic, abil deal vari country. develop countries, particularli african ones, owe multipl structur weaknesses, expos advers consequ scourge.",1
0,"“a landlock sahelian country, alreadi confront number crises, chad suffer full-on mani repercuss pandem variou level nation life. attend country’ nation prioriti upended, state’ limit resourc redirect deal first foremost health, humanitarian socioeconom emergencies.",1
0,"“chad’ nation develop plan, firmli support donor round tabl held pari 2017, seen expect result owe low level anticip resources. therefore, order support govern effort promot sustain development, honour pledg financ effort crucial chad, current prepar second nation develop plan.",1
0,"“the intern community, particular un, must increas momentum doubl effort ensur develop african continent, greatest number least develop countri located, place centr intern prioriti concret action reflect commitment. increas involv un, whose leadership crucial ever renew commit stakehold make possibl provid decis impetu requir mobil resourc need achiev promis 2030 agenda support countri alreadi path achiev 17 sustain develop goals.",1
0,"“in regard, fit recal debt alreadi major handicap pandem accentuated. african develop bank noted, nearli 50 million addit peopl could risk fall extrem poverti africa 2020. moreover, africa’ loss result pandem reach sever hundr billion dollar period 2020 2021. mani countri could forc borrow, aggrav debt burden.",1
0,"“at time world face coronavirus, terror continu rage ground africa, particularli lake chad basin sahelo-saharan region, claim innoc victim daili basi serious compromis develop effort countri region.",1
0,"“such case deadli 23 march attack perpetr boko haram chadian defenc secur forc boma lac province. vigor respons launch forces, led clear island lake chad boko haram terrorist elements.",1
0,“we therefor call intern commun greater sustain support multin joint task forc lake chad basin g-5 sahel joint forc establish countri region combat boko haram jihadist group sahel.,1
0,“that compound low level synergi among variou initi forc present sahel. therefor believ time translat word action sahel honour pledg contribut marshal addit resourc make g-5 joint forc fulli oper implement develop project g-5 sahel prioriti invest programme.,1
0,"“furthermore, welcom launch coalit sahel, base agreement among g-5 sahel countri partner pool effort resourc combat terrorism.",1
0,"“in regard, import continu work strengthen coher goal activ initi support g-5 sahel order respond effect challeng produc tangibl result ground term secur development.",1
0,"“concern issu climat change, chad — sahelian countri subject harm effect existenti threat, strongli affect sector make foundat economi — remain commit implement pari agreement climat change.",1
0,"“at intern level, welcom ceasefir libya, declar simultan presid presid council govern nation accord speaker hous representatives. chad reiter call secur council shoulder respons end extern interference. urg libyan stakehold respect ceasefir resolut engag process inclus negoti lead true nation reconciliation.",1
0,"“with regard sudan, chad welcom sign peac agreement among sudanes parti 31 august juba thank mediat efforts, chad stakeholder, leadership presid salva kiir mayardit republ south sudan, whose person involv commend.",1
0,"“chad call arm movement join process order achiev comprehens last peace, sudanes peopl greatli need.",1
0,"“concern tension surround great renaiss dam ethiopia, chad call brotherli govern egypt, ethiopia sudan continu priorit dialogu order reach negoti solut aegi african union.",1
0,"come end, year 2020 undoubtedli seen one difficult histori term public-health crisi brought coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandemic, spread world, caus untold human suffering. expos mani unforeseen vulner among intern commun caus unpreced econom crisis. deliber assembl still search last cure plague. would like take opportun pay tribut memori victim viru commend extraordinari work healthcar worker everi countri save million lives.",1
0,"session therefor take place extrem unusu context world disrupt ever. human tragedi result put multilater test urg us act resolut togeth halt scourge. welcom choic theme session gener assembly, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — address covid-19 effect multilater action”. mani ways, theme emblemat overal environ anxiety, compel us unit solidar determined. covid-19 pandem requir immens sacrific us, success halt crisi depend willing unit effort counter pandem prevent popul fall back extrem poverty. unfortun fact covid-19 pandem slow effort meet sever sustain develop goals, includ area health, hunger decent work. therefor imper intern commun adopt concerted, global coher approach respond appropri pandemic. regard, commend initi secretary-gener who, begin pandemic, launch global respons unit nation system address pandem guid state safeguard advers consequ pandemic.",1
0,"establish owe virus’ highli contagi nature, prevent measur take today suffici counter eventu elimin it. vaccin therefor continu last solution. regard, countri encourag research way throughout world achiev goal. although promising, alreadi deal issu access futur vaccines. true pharmaceut compani commit enorm financi resourc end, must sacrific human econom profit. therefor need ensur access futur covid-19 vaccin equitable, afford subject market forces. accordingly, welcom adopt resolut wha73.1 gener assembl world health organ  , pursuant member state provid full access vaccin relat medicin shall timely, equitable, high quality, safe afford all. countri also welcom covax facil initi launch — mechan group purchas eventu covid-19 vaccines, coordin global allianc vaccin immun — guarante everi particip countri fair equit access vaccin alloc framework intend set up.",1
0,"african continent, confront cruelti poverti endem cyclic natur scourges, also see worri spread disease. order counter that, african union implement control-and-prevent strategy, recommend africa centr diseas control prevention, cost whose implement alon estim $200 billion. also establish african medic suppli platform improv provis covid-19-rel medic equip supplies, access becom increasingli difficult owe strong market demand. regard, welcom partnership unit nation african union address challeng pose pandemic. countri believ secretary-general’ call leader group 20 adopt recoveri plan develop countries, well call debt suspens cancellation, result action taken.",1
0,"framework covid-19 response, first case diseas diagnosed, 6 march, togo set crisi committee, person chair presid republic, nation coordin response, manag committe scientif committee. view disease’ long-term socioeconom impact, govern also launch nation solidar econom recoveri fund total 400 billion cfa francs, approxim $665 million. measur taken involv prevent social distancing, case detection, compulsori wear mask educ awareness-rais among population. also shut variou area country, establish curfew, close borders, school univers ban gatherings.",1
0,"regard health care, govern open dedic centr lome country’ econom regions, train personnel suppli critic laboratory, medic protect equipment. scientif committe develop treatment plan. taken variou social measur benefit population, particularli vulner sectors, order mitig impact pandem — reduc cost water electricity, remov tax basic needs, provid food distribut subsid disadvantag citizen novissi cash transfer programme, and, lastly, support businesses. would therefor like take opportun express sincer thank variou partner assist togo fight pandemic.",1
0,"commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation year, fit note institut made great progress area peacebuilding, respect human right promot truli sustain development, despit prejudic overcome. one organization’ major achiev area promot peac security, peacekeep oper help save mani live restor stabil secur world plagu conflict emerg threat terror violent extremism. peacekeep operations, one major troop-contribut countri togo activ participant, enhanc improv time. right occas welcom fact move resolut increasingli toward prevent multidimension approach.",1
0,"area development, organization’ adopt 2015 2030 agenda sustain develop still far ambiti tool ensur peoples’ welfare. 2030 agenda, capit experi gain millennium develop goals, integr three dimens sustain develop — economic, social environment — crosscut approach. organ also excel promot human rights. intern human right standard accordingli flourish variou areas, especi regard women children.",1
0,"however, success must blind us fact organ still face mani challenges. activ intern cooper intern solidar help us deal effect successfully. yet banish spectr war arm conflict forms. nowaday conflict taken new form, driven non- state actor amorph network fuel terror religi extremism, includ countri sahel region central africa. moreover, climat change, especi destruct weather event recent seen africa, migrat crisi challeng organ must meet bold sustain respons achiev ideal found on.",1
0,"peoples’ expect high pressing, countri urg state assum respons meet commit take action, which, blunt, entail revit reform organization, particularli princip organs, includ secur council, order make repres better adapt demand time. firmli believ greater transparency, justice, equiti democracy, strict respect sovereign equal digniti states, particularli africa, enabl organ write new chapter existence. end, must give temptat turn inwardli nations. let us rather move forward togeth unit hope peac develop peopl remain firmli committed.mr. president,",1
0,"throughout past 75 years, unit nation member state relentlessli overcom global challenges. year, world face health crisi spread covid-19 wide affect live condit peopl well econom social system — overshadow special natur 75th anniversari unit nations. indeed, great challeng shall litmu test faith multilater uniti member state provid sustain solut overcom threat.",1
0,"1 million villag health volunt throughout countri play vital role patients, regardless nationality, guarante equal access medic treatment. furthermore, royal thai govern also fulli support strategi covid-19 vaccin development. thailand start vaccin research programm sinc quit time also foster collabor intern partners. regard, urg covid-19 vaccin medicin consid ‘global public goods’ access all. unit nation must play import role matter.",1
0,"furthermore, royal thai govern also introduc econom respons packag reliev financi burden peopl busi operators, whether low-incom groups, women entrepreneurs, farmers, vulner group ensur guarante equal access govern assistance. effort focus boost financi liquid entrepreneur sustain businesses. regard, set “centr econom situat administration”  cesa  act main mechan formul comprehens polici econom social rehabilit synerg effort public privat sectors.",1
0,"democrat society, thailand place peopl centre. peopl provid vital social synergi help drive nation agendas, integr sector country. cooper generos thai peopl time crisis, impact outbreak minim situat brought control. note, wish thank world health organ recogn thailand one countri provid effect respons covid-19. however, continu remind sector public underestim situat remain vigil prevent second outbreak.",1
0,"key factor behind thailand’ achiev pandem control role model effect healthcar manag determin polit develop robust healthcar system univers health coverag scheme. recognis healthi popul import forc drive nation develop toward security, prosper sustainability. regard, thailand share knowledg experi interest countri foreign polici global health  fpgh  initiative.",1
0,"occas 75th anniversari unit nations, take opportun assess previou success failures. although unit nation abl solv global problem faced, becom clear multilater inclus prevent larg scale arm conflict, protect world arbitrari exercis power. therefor commit strengthen multilater system cooper framework unit nation order respond chang world situation, new global challenges, live expect new generation. unit nation desire, unit nation need.",1
0,"development, ten year remain acceler action achiev sustain develop goal  sdg  2030. however, covid-19 pandem one key factor delay achievement. must, therefore, work harder, cooper closer promot develop path peopl centre. must also priorit particip stakehold emphas util technolog development.",1
0,"human rights, intern agreement instrument establish principl oblig protect human rights, rule law, good governance, emphasi vulner group children, elderly, person disabilities, low-incom earners, well migrant workers. therefor respons remain commit oblig continu ensur progress implementation. thailand, current implement 4th nation human right plan results-ori mindset. also proud thailand first countri asia enact nation action plan busi human rights, implement sinc 2019.",1
0,"crisi necessarili bring suffering. time, teach us use lesson help us develop stronger effect respons futur challenges. “new normal” futur social landscap look like depend sole generation, also youth new generations. togeth must creat space gener join hand collabor order plan futur want.",1
0,"finally, take opportun reaffirm thailand’ commit support agenda unit nations, peac security, development, climat chang management, commit human rights, promot partnership variou sectors. multilater guid us crisi together, done throughout 75 years, futur peac prevail better world futur generations.",1
0,"current situat world becom complicated, volatil turbul background grow geopolitical, geo-econom competit extens modern threat challenges, particularli spread coronaviru disease.",1
0,covid-19 initi appear healthcar crisi gradual turn justifi global socio-econom financi crisis. state affair current situat certainli requir activ coordin actions.,1
0,"welcom tireless effort made un secretary-general, unit nation special agencies, foundat programm provid immedi long-term assist member state tackl humanitarian socio-econom repercuss covid-19 pandemic.",1
0,"view prevent spread diseas today exert massiv effort increas necessari volum medic medic equip end time undertak effect measur cooper world health organization, countri develop partners.",1
0,"coronaviru outbreak led recess area nation economy, includ obstruct invest operations, foreign direct invest inflow, domest foreign trade, tourism services, particularli transport sector.",1
0,"take consider ongo process pandem impact, govern tajikistan along prevent spread infecti diseas exert effort undertak necessari measur aim ensur consist sustain oper socioeconom sector country.",1
0,"terrorist extremist group pose tremend challeng nation security, serious jeopard stabil countri differ regions.",1
0,"elimin menac terror necessit clear percept motiv root caus promot terrorism, well common global approach toward definit terrorism.",1
0,bold drastic measur commonli undertaken within intern law avoid doubl standard polici recogn yet anoth import factor tackl challenges.,1
0,commenc cooper intern organ region partner institut elabor two strategi paper new period clear evid success achiev direction.,1
0,"success joint concert action aim prevent resolut conflicts, explor peac way address crise confrontations, first foremost depend effect use prevent diplomaci mediation.",1
0,"tajikistan experienc horror impos civil war, valu well percept import overwhelm protect peace.",1
0,"given experi countri gain counter terrorism, extrem illeg drug traffick view introduc tajik peac experi determin nomin first time tajikistan’ candidaci non-perman seat un secur council 2028-2029.",1
0,"escal alarm situat countri urg intern commun undertak extra measur coordin action fight terrorism, cope drug manufactur traffick narcotics, likewis deliv time assist govern peopl afghanistan.",1
0,"however, econom financi indic countri sever neg consequ covid-19 call question time implement sustain develop goals, particularli develop countries.",1
0,"hope decad action deliv global goal help seek way sustain solut press global challenges, climat change, poverty, gender inequ financing.",1
0,"tajikistan 93 per cent territori cover mountains, bear loss equal hundr million dollar annual result water-rel disasters.",1
0,"year, due low precipit winter seen signific declin water stock region’ rivers, turn led low-wat season irrig caus sever drought.",1
0,connect would like call unit nation intern region organ support tajikistan expedit glacier central asia.,1
0,"1.	encourag widespread use renew energi sources, would facilit friendli environ “green” economi development.",1
0,5.	the deliveri comprehens financi technic assist develop countri intern organ develop least develop countri monitor preserv glacier sourc water.,1
0,owe support un member state abl reviv strengthen global water agenda past decades.,1
0,"also express admir gratitud doctors, paramedics, nurses, technic staff, volunteers, work selflessli mani month save live health peopl differ part world.",1
0,"yes, today speak first new danger face human twenty-first century. short time, covid-19 becom real perhap threaten challeng time. global challeng recogn borders, races, nationalities, detriment effect sphere civiliz development. perhap whole world felt vulner common threat sever first time mani decades. hope believ uniti solidar overcom defeat allow mankind becom renewed, wiser, respons farsight battle. even though current period difficult controversi give us chanc chang better sake entir planet’ destiny. highest polit moral duti miss chance, show dignity, solidar true humanism.",1
0,"turkmenistan activ began take necessari measur counter threat begin spread pandem world. effect protect measur taken time, unifi nation strategi combat coronaviru infect formed, consist set measur organizational, legal, financial, economic, medic sanitari quarantin character.",1
0,"take account initi secretari general, turkmenistan approv nation plan prepared prevent respons acut infecti diseas state level. plan oper social econom measur turkmenistan counteract coronaviru pandem also develop adopted.",1
0,close profession coordin joint effort medic scientif commun around world necessari ever fast victori pandemic.,1
0,"convinc today need comprehensive, systemat purpos multilater cooper problem danger viral diseases, full launch scientif diplomaci channels. regard, turkmenistan propos consid develop establish appropri intern instruments.",1
0,"coronaviru pandem signific neg impact cours direct global economi serious undermin global community’ effort achiev sustain develop goals. context, look forward intensifi cooper aim restor econom trade relations. today necessari creat platform put global economi sustain growth trajectory. opinion, energy, transport, industri trade becom key areas.",1
0,"context, 75th session, turkmenistan intend intensifi work elabor intern legal instrument un field stabil reliabl energi transit.",1
0,"world trade organ take proactiv role work restor world economi promot trade investment. recent obtain observ statu wto, turkmenistan activ use opportun open regard promot practic measur overcom quickli crisi phenomena world economy, transit posit dynamics.",1
0,"coronaviru pandem affect extent mani countri world. however, serious danger disadvantag region perspect ecology. unfortunately, plenti territori map imposs mention one speech. therefore, would like touch upon issue, highli relev central asian state nations. aral sea disaster.",1
0,"situat escal amidst pandemic, threaten life health peopl risk epidem outbreak consider risen. circumst urg world commun pay close attent problem aral sea aral sea region.",1
0,"may speak plainly, insuffici today. necessari detail work save aral sea concret practic assist support provid peopl live there. thus, strongli believ that, subject aral sea need systemat comprehens approach well relev legal document issu set separ direct un activities. regard, turkmenistan put forward initi creat special program aral sea basin.",1
0,"deep concern disregard intern law wit lately. view current situat necessari consolid effort aim strengthen role intern law, multilater legal instrument global secur system, strict complianc state gener accept norm deriv un charter. way could sustain stabil predict global polit mitig risk conflicts.",1
0,"follow logic neutral polici turkmenistan intend submit draft resolut “the role unit nation region centr prevent diplomaci central asia” gener assembly’ consider ensur region peace, security, develop unleash potenti prevent diplomacy.",1
0,"peace, secur develop central asia directli depend settlement situat afghanistan. posit turkmenistan principl remain unchanged. altern negoti process. previou experi shown coerciv approach prospect fail lead agreement reconciliation. countri afghanistan’ neutral immedi neighbor state readi provid necessari polit organiz condit territori establish peac dialogu govern afghanistan parti interest polit settlement situat afghanistan.",1
0,"think key condit polit stabilization, social econom recoveri afghanistan, success integr global economi implement larg infrastructur project afghanistan’ involv primarili vital sector energy, transport communications.",1
0,"turkmenistan strongli believ futur un continu strengthen build strateg partnership organization, therebi make contribut unlock inexhaust potenti interest global peace, secur progress.",1
0,"attack — know — limit unilater coerciv measures. may 3rd, venezuela face attempt maritim incurs group mercenari terrorists, financ govern unit state train colombian territory, total absolut support u.s. colombian governments. group terrorist confront real time civic-militari polic union, perpetr attack, arm incurs venezuela, neutral captured, order judici institut due process.",1
0,"necessari countri defend peac activ make govern unit state understand that, midst pandemic, one understand explain upsurg crimin prosecution, blockad nobl countri cuba, nicaragua, venezuela, syria, iran brotherli countri world. reason, must demand cessat unilater coerciv measures, alleg sanctions, allow peopl exercis rights, right develop peace. unit state govern must abandon old practic crimin us subordin order world maintain, it, polici independ sovereignty. unit state — must say — cours history, becom seriou threat peac world.",1
0,"venezuela tradit host countri refuge migrants. however, direct consequ crimin unilater coerciv measur econom aggress impos govern unit state people, process migrat citizen taken place, fundament econom reasons.",1
0,"said, covid-19 pandem catalys alreadi unsustain live condit thousand migrant so-cal host countries, report worsen abandon lack respons attent author countries. fragil social protect system countri becom evident, sometim present social econom models. wonder again, possible, despit great amount dollar given govern extravag donor recruit confer venezuelan migrants? money? govern steal it? believ must certainli review, institut scientif rigour role unit nation agencies, peopl agencies, play processes, unhcr intern organ migrat  iom .",1
0,"venezuela, tell you, necessari guarante hold parliamentari elect invit world join us, wit live democracy, noth nobodi abl take away venezuelan peopl right elect new legisl power, sinc fundament tool collect exist express origin power. one decid us venezuelan  interven intend case — ever — nation, respect thu demand respect.",1
0,"first, global region multilater mechan must strengthened. need unit nation truli cohes inclusive, everi member, larg small, rich poor, voic decid matter common concern. un must serv “incubator” multilater cooper initi peace, develop prosperity. reform undertaken transform un stronger effect organ fulfil role harmon interest behavior state face monument chang time.",1
0,"second, unit nation charter fundament principl intern law must upheld advanc norm behavior countri contemporari intern relations. must resolut persever advanc cooper friendship counter conflict hostility. must choos dialogu confrontation, peac settlement disput unilater act imposition. spirit, viet nam call remov unilater sanction advers affect countries’ socio-econom develop people’ livelihoods, especi embargo impos upon cuba.",1
0,"third, covid-19 pandem serv stern warn us all, requir stronger commit stronger action promot sustainable, inclus human-cent development. 2030 agenda sustain develop continu framework cooper overcom pandem sustain recovery. polici action interest peopl heart, one, country, left behind. develop countri receiv financi assistance, technolog commerci facilit realiz sustain develop goals.",1
0,"viet nam pursu foreign polici independence, self-reliance, multilater diversif relations. reliabl partner active, respons member intern community, viet nam attach import work un expand comprehens cooper organization. viet nam work member state make un democratic, transpar effective.",1
0,"last 75 years, member state painstakingli built unit nation peace, cooper development. duty-bound strengthen reinvigor world’ largest multilater organization, particularli face immens challeng opportun 21st century.",1
0,"outset, let sincer congratul assum presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. excellency, assur vanuatu’ commit support tenure, everi confid presid success guid us collect pursuit futur want, ralli spirit cooper essenti unit nation need.",1
0,"deliv nation address via video link may emblemat extraordinari time, it’ also sign resolv adapt make use available. so, even though moment abl travel togeth person, continu find way har collect commit vision end pandem reset planet sustain peac footing.",1
0,"mani peopl around world, 2020 year unparallel challenge. covid-19 unleash complex web health, econom social issu sore test government, busi commun systems. pandem expos exist vulner alert us threat new ones. seen exacerb alreadi unaccept high rate global inequ poverti face.",1
0,"covid-19 also shone new light exist global challeng conflicts, includ escal threat arm race terror  continu human right abus  climat chang  displac peopl  scourg non-communic disease, disrupt technolog revolut redefin futur work. around world see fallout pandem deepen commun divisions, escal geopolit tensions, chang trade relat threaten peace.",1
0,"thankfully, still confirm suspect case covid-19 vanuatu. earli border closur gave us preciou window prepar health responses, also come seriou econom social costs. top that, april, countri hit yet anoth severe, categori five tropic cyclone. sever compound disast alreadi left endur scar families, commun nation. limit resourc strain ongo recoveri effort previou disasters. ever loom threat futur disast extrem weather events, fuell exacerb climat change. even so, experi assur us work together, recover, build back better emerg stronger resilient.",1
0,"careful, event year continu fractur multilater may dilut global develop aspirations. triumphantli sign five year ago 2030 agenda 17 sustain develop goals. ever must return collect commit redoubl implement efforts. vanuatu alreadi contextu global goal nation aspirations, articul vanuatu 2030 — people’ plan. year sought ensur nation recoveri strategi respond immedi social, econom environment need associ covd-19 cyclon harold, empow us build back better continu advanc develop aspirations. must keep move forward revert back before. increas frequenc extrem weather event disast mean recoveri becom new normal.",1
0,"build back better possibl right architectur place. us small island develop state especially, biggest threat global — notabl climat chang manag oceans. therefor solut must global, mean imper necessari intern architectur place. resourc address complex challeng becom scarcer, vulner countri ldc sid especi face daunt future. put simply, need fulli functional, work unit nations. need un agenc work solid partnership member states, multilater organizations. know problems, need find way fix these, creat even greater problem continu trend undermin multilater intern cooperation.",1
0,"first, covid-19 result mount debt countri least afford servic them. essenti multilater financi institut provid debt forgiv relief. accompani tailor concession financ packag grants. measur ensur adequ fiscal space countri weather current crisis, also financ implement sustain develop priorities. acknowledg great work alreadi gone ahead area, however, believ need done.",1
0,"finally, imper ensur everi countri get timely, fair equit access covid-19 vaccines, mean work cooper competitively. un must especi ensur vulner countri world get access. medic break pray for, must unit effort mitig drastic impact crisi people.",1
0,"theme 75th gener assembl call us, member state unit nations, come togeth frame futur want. vanuatu, extraordinarili difficult year backdrop start next phase nation building, mark independ celebr culmin ldc graduat months. hope share experi contribut global learn navig current crisi work togeth pursuit sustain peac sustain development. emerg grip covid-19, continu align nation global recoveri exist commit reorient growth model one sustain greener nature.",1
0,"theme year’ gener debat apt timely. need reaffirm commit multilater face challeng covid 19 pandemic, shape “the futur want, unit nation need”.",1
0,live tri unparallel times. never leader requir make hard decis close border provid near absolut guarante peopl arriv covid-19 pandem limit commun transmiss virus. uncertainti face test mettl nation govern like never before. samoa extend sincer condol un famili live lost due pandem pay tribut selfless servic frontlin worker risk live bring covid-19 control.,1
0,"samoa remain covid-free, spare seriou life chang impact nation, people, still recov devast decemb 2019 measl outbreak claim 80 young lives. experi test resolv nation, also strengthen uniti resilience. importantly, reaffirm trust invest genuin partnerships.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem time remind yet interconnectedness. world teeter brink uncertainties, need ‘nation unit one’. global solidar unifi respons best armour pandem socio-econom impact peopl facing. acknowledg ongo support un develop partner continu assist effort mitig impact pandemic. hope success develop vaccin equal even distribution. let us spread kind faster virus, hate, fear misinformation.",1
0,"pacif sids, futur alreadi uncertain compromis world continu current trajectori emiss caus 3 degre global warming. would pose existenti threat islands. pandem introduc temporari lockdown  sever cyclon continu rampage, coastlin whittl away, sea level rise higher, ocean yield gnaw acidification. border closur observed, climat chang know restrict respect boundaries.",1
0,unit nation remain best hope provid polit necessari commit avoid existenti threat mani small state un family.,1
0,"un made notabl achiev peac secur agenda, much work still need done. covid-19 contribut increas volatil instabl situations. grow inequality, poverty, arm conflicts, terror insecur still exist. peopl flee home search refug safeti becom new normal. threat use nuclear weapon still present.",1
0,"samoa’ long-term vision improv qualiti life mirror un 2030 agenda, critic roadmap uphold three pillar un. achiev sdg take us closer world envisag founder organis 75 year ago, futur want joined.",1
0,"socio-econom wellb peopl remain core samoa’ develop initiatives. promotion, respect of, protect fulfil human right fundament freedoms, indispens ensur one left behind. commit human right approach sustain development. continu invest robust system process improv effect inclus implement human right obligations. ensur linkag core sustain develop nation secur priorities.",1
0,"concern howev lack progress reform secur council. samoa remain convinc expand secur council mirror present day realiti essenti multilater council’ integr credibility. increas perman non-perman categori part parcel reform package, time move text base negotiations.",1
0,"year’ session gener assembl sixth held republ yemen endur difficult harsh circumst result war impos upon peopl houthi coup militia, back iran, region supporter. militia hatch plan follow execut gulf initiative, implement mechanism, coincid success hold comprehens nation dialogu conference, establish road map futur republ yemen, particip entir polit spectrum.",1
0,"houthi militia, sent repres ndc, welcom developments. start time prepar coup d’etat country. began mobil forc ensur collaps town citi displac citizen home regions. even invad capital, sana’a, septemb 2014, took state institut hostag undermin elect legitimaci polit climate. suppress freedoms, raid hous blew school place worship. suppress dissent voic harass citizens. militia transform sana’a, citi steep history, civil tradit coexistence, great prison put peopl behind bars.",1
0,"unit nation play pivot outstand role overse polit transit process yemen, ongo sinc 2011. accord gulf initi implement mechanism, start transit period. nation govern form presidenti elect took place. nation dialogu confer held particip strata yemeni society. new yemeni constitut draft accord outcom dialogue. suppos subject referendum yemeni peopl adopt allow elect held line new constitution. however, houthi coup d’etat disrupt transit process led war peopl yemen.",1
0,"war impos us caus humanitarian catastrophe, destroy societi led wave collect displacement. also caus repression, forc disappear worst case poverti ever seen peopl decades. extend hand peace. done utmost support facilit effort unit nation current special envoy, mr. martin griffiths, well previou envoys, view save countri establish last comprehens peace. goal stop bloodlet yemen yemeni catastroph yemeni peopl accept iranian model territory, regardless circumst challenges.",1
0,"let us recal concess made quest peac past five years. commit month ago — alongsid brother coalit support yemeni legitimacy, led kingdom saudi arabia — establish unilater ceasefir support effort mr. martin griffith last comprehens ceasefir would allow polit process resumed. however, effort regrett fail obstinaci houthi terrorist militia sponsor iranian regime. even wors militia took opportun mobil attack governor cities, caus massacr among civilian sever region citi yemen.",1
0,"see today ruthless escal militias, particularli governor ma’rib, al-jawf al-bayda, houthi militia engag indiscrimin militari campaign sever months. attack residenti area ballist missiles, concern whatsoev civilian live million displac peopl fled region militia’ control. terrorist militia repeatedli target civilian civilian infrastructur kingdom saudi arabia. clearli demonstr true intent view peace.",1
0,call intern commun support govern effort address econom challeng polici plan strengthen nation currenc view ensur household stability. intern commun allow houthi manipul humanitarian aid blackmail govern loot fund earmark payment salaries. continu undermin unit nation effort regard.,1
0,call intern commun make seriou urgent commit end immin catastroph surround fso safer oil tanker. houthi militia refus grant unit nation access oil tanker repair maintenance.,1
0,"unlimit support brother kingdom saudi arabia, made much progress implement riyadh agreement, aim establish stabil enabl us address regrett event took place provision capital, aden, august 2019. done utmost facilit implement agreement believ must pool effort ensur reconstruct development, auspic state. reiter trust brother kingdom saudi arabia continu implement agreement.",1
0,"african continent, respons coronaviru swift effective. continent strategi fight pandem driven region econom communities. african union establish covid-19 respons fund launch ground-break african medic suppli platform ensur countri access necessari equip supplies.",1
0,"nonetheless, pandem inevit set back development aspirations. resourc redirect fight pandem set back effort provid housing, health care, water sanit educ people.",1
0,ensur countri left behind reiter posit african union econom sanction zimbabw sudan lift allow govern respond adequ pandemic. also call suspens interest payment africa’ extern public debt.,1
0,year 2020 rememb massiv groundswel push back frontier racism umbrella #blacklivesmatt movement.,1
0,"cooper un secur council au peac secur council contribut improv peac secur darfur region sudan, south sudan, somalia, mali central african republic.",1
0,use tenur promot intern peac secur advoc peac settlement disput inclus dialogue.,1
0,reform inclus secur council abl collect resolv world’ protract conflicts.,1
0,"must advanc principl green circular economies, sake environment sustain opportun job creation econom growth.",1
0,"south africa reaffirm commit ideal spirit un charter, spare effort bring just, peac equit world.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem decim economi exacerb poverty, also shown us interconnect interdepend world is, must work togeth respond effect challeng confront us today.",1
0,"prior onset covid-19, young peopl alreadi three time like unemploy compar adult counterparts. pandem push global economi deeper crisis, young gener risk disproportion bear brunt mass unemploy under-protection.",1
0,"regard, wish share zambian govern launch multi sector youth empower programm support young entrepreneurs. multi-sector approach help ensur programm activ empow creat employ opportun youth mainstream across sectors.",1
0,"mark 75th anniversari this, great institution, cannot conclud that, unit nations’ import continu relev mankind beyond question. context need revit fulfil ideal established.",1
0,year celebr diamond jubile unit nation organization. gratifi continu make qualit differ live mani peopl throughout world. jubil sadli mar covid 19 pandem brought fore import uniti effect multilater cooper build futur want.,1
0,"zimbabw new path. like nation region, face humanitarian challeng case worsen illeg sanctions, neg impact climat change, compound outbreak covid-19 pandemic.",1
0,optimist implement second phase eas busi reform help improv world bank rankings.,1
0,"let assur zimbabw continu implement measur battl covid-19 pandemic. institut phase lockdowns, follow world health organ guidelines, govern also provid zwl$18 billion  approxim us$720 million  econom stimulu package.",1
0,"celebr 25th anniversari 4th world confer women 1 st octob year, gratifi highlight zimbabw taken major step implement beij declaration. includ adopt gender respons constitution, establish zimbabw gender commission, enact sever piec legisl outlaw practic infring right women girl forc child marriag discrimin women inherit matters. govern also set women’ bank facilit access financ women-own busi projects.",1
0,"let conclud reaffirm zimbabwe’ commit work better world. better way achiev peac andstabl world mutual respect, genuin multilater buttress much need reform respect intern law. recommit ideal pave way world yearn for.",1
2,reform inclus secur council abl collect resolv world’ protract conflicts.,1
0,"respond determin fast world recovers, shape abil achiev sustain develop goal manag global challenges.",1
0,"third, breach contractu oblig export critic good movement peopl erod trust nations.",1
0,"adopt constitut declar 17 august 2019 constitut second stage victori revolution, make peac put end war top prioriti transit government. basi upon juba process launched. simpli negoti two war parties, past, rather process dialogu partner revolut order achiev peac cessat war, well address root caus conflict. juba peac agreement sign 3 october.",1
0,"take opportun underlin prais construct import role administr presid unit state america donald trump play reach agreement, import signal commit find last sustain solut import issue.",1
0,"coronaviru continu spread across world, hit one countri other, infect million people, take hundr thousand lives. moreover, covid-19 caus widespread fear future. pandem health crisis, also humanitarian secur crisis, accentu pre-exist structur problem within among nations, coronaviru assail commun around world drove global economi downturn whose long-term effect cannot yet fulli assessed. human impact lockdown suspens social econom activ disproportion felt vulner countri groups, includ indigen peoples, ethnic minorities, person disabilities, women children. inadequ health system  gap social protect  structur inequ  environment degrad  climat crisis: pandem show us fragil world. unit nation lead respons health crisis, also expand mean lifesav humanitarian assist establish instrument rapid respons socio-econom impact.",1
0,determin combat covid-19 pandem must also inspir us fight effect climat chang safeguard biodiversity.,1
1,"although illeg interfer destabil yemen’ secur years, strongli believ stabil yemen restored, especi within current environ could lead complet ceasefir perman polit solut auspic unit nations. regard, affirm decis pursu polit process yemen yemeni decision. countri also commend tremend effort made brotherli kingdom saudi arabia. reiter uae’ support riyadh agreement call unit yemeni posit order reach sustain solution.",1
1,"region suffer mani decad attempt forc extrem chao seek impos malign view polici order hijack countries’ present future, pay heed aspir peopl region development, prosperity, peace. kingdom, chose path futur vision 2030 aspir creat robust economi commun interact surround contribut activ progress civil humankind.",1
1,"presid republic, strict agreement government, took advantag impact covid-19 establish econom recoveri plan, center people, reactiv nation economy, measur short, medium long term. mean stop loss job income.",1
0,"turkmenistan activ began take necessari measur counter threat begin spread pandem world. effect protect measur taken time, unifi nation strategi combat coronaviru infect formed, consist set measur organizational, legal, financial, economic, medic sanitari quarantin character.",1
1,"area development, organization’ adopt 2015 2030 agenda sustain develop still far ambiti tool ensur peoples’ welfare. 2030 agenda, capit experi gain millennium develop goals, integr three dimens sustain develop — economic, social environment — crosscut approach. organ also excel promot human rights. intern human right standard accordingli flourish variou areas, especi regard women children.",1
1,"pacif sids, futur alreadi uncertain compromis world continu current trajectori emiss caus 3 degre global warming. would pose existenti threat islands. pandem introduc temporari lockdown  sever cyclon continu rampage, coastlin whittl away, sea level rise higher, ocean yield gnaw acidification. border closur observed, climat chang know restrict respect boundaries.",1
0,"follow logic neutral polici turkmenistan intend submit draft resolut “the role unit nation region centr prevent diplomaci central asia” gener assembly’ consider ensur region peace, security, develop unleash potenti prevent diplomacy.",1
2, v 	build resili futur crisi,1
0,"escal alarm situat countri urg intern commun undertak extra measur coordin action fight terrorism, cope drug manufactur traffick narcotics, likewis deliv time assist govern peopl afghanistan.",1
0,"reduct food loss wast underpin achiev sustain develop three dimens — economic, social environmental. food- relat sustain practic innov solut instrument number major delic issues, poverti alleviation, hunger erad human health. san marino deem crucial curb food loss waste, sustain product consumpt practices. order achiev this, must recognis collect relev issues, emphasis need immedi effect action. why, togeth princip andorra, san marino 2019 sponsor resolut design 29 septemb intern day awar food loss waste.",1
1,"way elabor solut work together, import task un g20 states, well lead inter state organ integr associ also go tough time due pandem impact need fundament new horizon scope development.",1
1,"armenia carri ethnic cleans azerbaijani popul occupi territories. azerbaijani forcibl expel occupi territories. armenia commit number war crime crime human azerbaijani civilians. armenia establish criminal, terrorist puppet regim territori hide respons occup lands.",1
0,"global challeng crise tendenc either pull us togeth push us apart  true form, covid-19 crisi creat unpreced bond among countries. crisi taught remind us belong together, irrespect location, distanc time planet. time histori reflect focu must candid transform deepli explor lesson learnt therefore, rethink gener shape futur want. therefore, opportun time ask big questions, make great decis commit act solidarity.",1
0,"world face period prolong turmoil. multilater system confront nationalism, xenophobia, reject free trade global econom integration, bifurc technolog suppli chains. threat new. covid-19 fact acceler intensifi preexist trends. protection unilater action ultim self defeating.",1
1,"pandem escal econom crisi associ also neg effect sustain development, 2030 goals.",1
0,"need break present climat distrust. present, wit eros multilateralism, seriou light develop new form militari technology, lethal autonom weapon system  law  irrevers alter natur warfare, detach human agency.",1
0,"feel just, call end embargo suffer peopl govern cuba. solidar cuban scientists, doctor health professionals, fight covid-19, deserv respect admiration.",1
2,"next step way becom withdraw unlaw militari format armament occupi territories, return control state border, and, finally, restor territori integr ukrain within intern recogn borders.",1
0,"pleas even difficult period caus covid-19 pandem high level mutual solidar region demonstrated, great extent precis result construct proactiv relationship serbia build previou year neighbors. cooper intens region countri relat repatri citizen relat issu humanitarian medic assistance, also regular suppli goods.",1
2,"pandem addit emphas need close intens intern cooperation, wherebi un special agenc organizations, like world health organization, irreplac role organ respons newli occur challeng health nature, also socio-economic, polit secur dimension.",1
2,"socio-econom wellb peopl remain core samoa’ develop initiatives. promotion, respect of, protect fulfil human right fundament freedoms, indispens ensur one left behind. commit human right approach sustain development. continu invest robust system process improv effect inclus implement human right obligations. ensur linkag core sustain develop nation secur priorities.",1
2,"econom commiss latin america caribbean  eclac  forecast gross domest product  gdp  caribbean contract 6.9 per cent 2020, effect covid-19 economies.",1
2,"seychelles’ protect nearli third eez ocean conservation, sustain climat action show countries’ respons health financi crisi caus covid19 need expens natur climate.",1
1,"see need review whole sdgs, pandem also derail us ldc graduat track. current plan design help bhutan graduat ldc categori 2023. everyth changed, focu shift save live livelihood challeng pose pandemic.",1
2,"mr. president, futur want peopl one move ahead common support solut challeng emerge, order achiev sustain inclus development, right respect opportun offer develop everi citizen world, leav one behind.",1
1,would also enabl everyon 100 per cent digit compet help deriv advantag technolog corner world.,1
0,"grate theme chosen session: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. theme give member state opportun construct contribut work gener assembly. covid-19 pandem probabl one arduou challeng histori unit nations. surely, violent blow countri endur — still endur — long time. one forget. san marino among countri sever affect pandemic. viru caus death last month country, reason celebrations. san marino remain one countri suffer highest rate infect world, dramat consequ community.",1
2,"fulli realiz responsibility, russia suggest conven g5 summit. would aim reaffirm key principl behavior intern affairs, elabor way effect address today’ burn issues. encourag partner support initiative. expect hold summit — person — soon epidemiolog situat make possible.",1
0,"us, sdg reson well development plan base principl gnh. reason, bhutan track becom earli achiev sdgs, shown voluntari review 2018.",1
1,"sinc last quarter 2017, bosnia herzegovina face enorm problem illeg migrations, significantli worsen year. due close remain migrat routes, major migrant come far middl east head toward countri european union territori bosnia herzegovina, pose enorm secur humanitarian problem, counti enough resourc solv it.",1
2,"pandem stark remind fate interconnect one secur everyon secured. pandem larg extent kept us restrict homes. consequently, econom activ greatli hamper along health systems. bangladesh achiev gdp growth rate 8.2 per cent fiscal year 2018-2019. covid 19 pandem imped econom progress.",1
2,recoveri effort aim take us sustain resili futur requir recognit econom recoveri depend ecolog health. reviv econom activ expens environment sustainability.,1
2,"yes, politicians, duti protect citizens. but, viru distinguish unilateralist multilateralists. covid-19 one safe, everyon safe. we, therefore, avoid form “vaccin nationalism”. develop vaccin becom new race moon.",1
2,"within framework, instruct head state, govern launch 500 billion cfa franc invest plan period 2020 2024 ensur health-car system’ resili sustainability.",1
0,covid-19 initi appear healthcar crisi gradual turn justifi global socio-econom financi crisis. state affair current situat certainli requir activ coordin actions.,1
1,"look forward see iran respect principl good-neighborli abid secur council resolut stop develop ballist missil program ceas arm terrorist groups. context, countri particularli concern restrict impos iran nuclear agreement soon due expire. sinc nuclear agreement achiev desir outcome, hope experi use achiev comprehens agreement address concern state region make key partner draft term agreement.",1
1,sid made heroic effort shore job unemploy grow provid social safeti net peopl respons covid-19 limit capac resourc have.,1
2,"digit sector romania amount 6 per cent gdp import driver growth innovation. see digit opportun everyon key compon econom development. romania’ digit transform aim make countri less bureaucratic, resilient, attract foreign investment. also potenti turn romania region innov hub.",1
0,"coronaviru pandem signific neg impact cours direct global economi serious undermin global community’ effort achiev sustain develop goals. context, look forward intensifi cooper aim restor econom trade relations. today necessari creat platform put global economi sustain growth trajectory. opinion, energy, transport, industri trade becom key areas.",1
2,"act uniti manag keep number case low. today, record 261 posit cases, 192 recovered. mortal covid-19 remain zero.",1
1,"covid-19 crisi brought stark realiz import solidar cooper — among within multilater organizations, world health organization.",1
0,"terrorist extremist group pose tremend challeng nation security, serious jeopard stabil countri differ regions.",1
1,"turn multilater theme debat  multilater recognis crucial globally-coordin respons covid-19 us emerg pandem resilient, hopefully, compassionate.",1
1,slovenia share awar biodivers loss urgent global challenge.,1
1,"come decades, prosper close link digit literaci access high-spe connectivity. secretary-general’ roadmap digit cooper compel farsighted, build work broadband commiss initiatives.",1
1,"crisi necessarili bring suffering. time, teach us use lesson help us develop stronger effect respons futur challenges. “new normal” futur social landscap look like depend sole generation, also youth new generations. togeth must creat space gener join hand collabor order plan futur want.",1
0,"however, middl east afflict major secur polit challeng undermin secur peopl stabil countries.",1
2,"sudan express solidar victim terror around world countri suffer terrorist attacks. renew reject condemn terror form manifest cooperation, access effect contribut intern bilater effort terror financing. commit implement relev intern resolut issu secur council.",1
1,"base moral legal respons toward peoples, affirmed, continu reaffirm, uncondit dialogu base common interest respect sovereignti state way solv crisi start illeg blockade, whose solut start lift blockade.",1
2,"first, global region multilater mechan must strengthened. need unit nation truli cohes inclusive, everi member, larg small, rich poor, voic decid matter common concern. un must serv “incubator” multilater cooper initi peace, develop prosperity. reform undertaken transform un stronger effect organ fulfil role harmon interest behavior state face monument chang time.",1
2,"but, minds, also led uncertainti question future.",1
1,"addition, must work togeth ensur avail access essenti health-car services, particular qualiti primari care, key achiev 2030 agenda sustain development, especi sustain develop goal 3.",1
1,"face vulner exacerb pandemic, anoth driver inequ unemploy upend world — 4th industri revolution. digit age upon us, challeng us adapt way consume, way work, way govern.",1
0,"today, world face tremend challeng form covid-19 pandem health, humanitarian, econom repercuss compel us stand togeth order face common challeng world. presid g20, kingdom coordin intern effort hold leaders’ summit last march coordin global effort combat pandem curb humanitarian econom impacts. summit, kingdom announc pledg $500 million support effort combat pandemic, reinforc emerg prepared responses. kingdom continu promot global respons effort confront pandem address repercussions.",1
0,"continu seek solut individu manner, result impasse. organ becom necessari ever foster kind collect action today’ global challenges.",1
2,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nation midst global pandem — pandem place enorm pressur societies, commun families. would like express deepest condol live lost.",1
2,"order share experi road travel implement sdgs, successes, current emerg challeng lesson learned, burundi submit voluntari nation review mechan 2020. remain convinc that, order sdgs, adopt 2015 becom reality, requir addit commitment, initiative, effort and, all, resources.",1
0,"covid-19 expos vulner food secur systems. atol nation like tuvalu, agricultur difficult rise sea levels. last years, assist develop partners, invest new agricultur food product system resili climat chang sea level rise. acknowledg recent work peacebuild fund area would encourag assist scale initi develop food secur atol nations.",1
1,"well-known, ancient cultur rich spiritu heritag region global importance.",1
2,"concern howev lack progress reform secur council. samoa remain convinc expand secur council mirror present day realiti essenti multilater council’ integr credibility. increas perman non-perman categori part parcel reform package, time move text base negotiations.",1
2,"occasion, reiter firm stanc state qatar way end syrian crisi polit solut base geneva communiqu  1 , implement secur council resolut 2254  2015 . state qatar also affirm continue, intern community, support effort realiz justic hold account perpetr atrocities, war crime crime human commit syria.",1
2,"global cooper partnerships, region nation levels, crucial build resilient, sustain inclus world.",1
1,"elimin menac terror necessit clear percept motiv root caus promot terrorism, well common global approach toward definit terrorism.",1
0,"regard, strongli support vision ambiti reform agenda un secretary-general. albania convinc reform unit nation deliv integr system-wid approach achiev 2030 agenda make sure one left behind.",1
2,"go talk multilater count everyone, must deliv equit recoveri prioritis innovation, science, health, wellbeing, opportun liveabl environ countri societies.",1
2,"somalia, govern peopl work close togeth mitig worst effect covid-19 pandemic. like govern across world, priorit health citizen much possibl save lives. direct medic provis consistent, updat effect public health information, govern utmost keep popul safe possible. covid-19 cases, rise quickli earli stage pandemic, fallen steadili result government’ swift actions.",1
0,"development, ten year remain acceler action achiev sustain develop goal  sdg  2030. however, covid-19 pandem one key factor delay achievement. must, therefore, work harder, cooper closer promot develop path peopl centre. must also priorit particip stakehold emphas util technolog development.",1
0,"way, celebr un’ next milestone, 100th anniversary, would achiev 100 per cent literaci rate, empow everyon relev skill knowledg meaning life.",1
0,invest hospit medic suppli ensur viru overwhelm health system.,1
1,"accordingly, order contribut restor environ improv country’ environmental, social econom situation, novemb 2017 govern republ burundi launch ewe burundi urambay project significantli reduc effect deforestation.",1
2,"theme time remind valu signific multilater ultim framework everlast solut exist emerg global challeng attained. indeed, world much safer secur place nation work togeth toward collect respons complex threat time.",1
0,"oper welcome, led brazilian ministri defense, receiv almost 400,000 venezuelan displac result deep polit econom crisi bred venezuelan dictatorship.",1
1,75th anniversari unit nation fall moment uncommon peril peopl planet. covid pandem claim nearli one million live push hundr million unexpect hardship. time doubt hesitation. tool meet test prevail. mark import anniversari year.,1
2,"graduat categori least develop countri import mileston develop trajectori develop country. solomon island transit phase graduat schedul graduat 2024. however, time solomon island underw triennial review, pass vulner criterion. vulner becom glaringli obviou covid-19 exacerb preexist challeng face solomon island made pathway toward sustain graduat smooth transit extrem difficult.",1
0,"let conclud reaffirm zimbabwe’ commit work better world. better way achiev peac andstabl world mutual respect, genuin multilater buttress much need reform respect intern law. recommit ideal pave way world yearn for.",1
2,"fight climat chang continu one prioriti andorra, countri special awar natur environment. year signific year climat action plan new scenario understanding, mark ratif new object reduc greenhous ga emissions, within framework climat chang confer cop26 held unit kingdom. andorra approv pari agreement 2015 without doubt hesitation, pass law energi transit fight climat chang reflect contribut pari agreement. indeed, one first countri establish plan reduc emiss experi work toward becom sustain countri sinc awar must preserv resourc natur environ futur generations. reason, spare effort fight climat change.",1
0,"“furthermore, welcom launch coalit sahel, base agreement among g-5 sahel countri partner pool effort resourc combat terrorism.",1
0,"achiev success battl terror extremism, must intensifi joint effort face challeng comprehensively. includ combat financ terror extremism. kingdom support mani intern entiti contribut reinforc joint effort combat challenge. kingdom support un counter-terror center contribut $110 million establish global center combat extremist ideolog  etid  riyadh. kingdom also host intern terrorist financ target center.",1
0,"coronaviru outbreak led recess area nation economy, includ obstruct invest operations, foreign direct invest inflow, domest foreign trade, tourism services, particularli transport sector.",1
0,"year 2020 undoubtedli rememb dark time, indel mark pandemic, whose devast effect everi aspect live demonstr — need demonstr — collect vulnerability.",1
2,pandem come show global level weak health structur respond problem high magnitud severity.,1
1,"order flatten curv pandem prevent global econom crisis, must react collectively, spirit uniti solidarity.",1
1,pandem taught us urgent lesson: longer ignor drivers.,1
2,"desir peac achiev israel’ full commit term refer decis intern legitimaci accept arab upon arab peac initi based, israel tri circumv act palestinian caus exist. arrang base term refer achiev peace, even call peace. may intent solut palestinian cause, achiev comprehensive, last peace.",1
0,"chair g7+ group countri bring togeth countri affect conflict fragility, sierra leon remain commit foster peaceful, just, inclus societies. among local action sierra leon taken foster goal ramp fight corrupt prepar establish perman commiss peac nation cohesion. follow pledg made 74th session august body, expung 55-year old law criminalis sediti libel. work close journalists, civil society, women’ groups, stakehold group nurtur strengthen democracy.",1
2,"trinidad tobago join famili nation 1962, year attain independence. small island develop state, continu embrac principl collect secur enshrin charter major safeguard small states, rule law, absenc militari econom power, sustain strength sovereignty. mark 75th anniversari unit nations, states, small large, reason proud achiev umbrella rever organisation, creation roadmap global sustain development, advanc develop intern law promot gender equality.",1
1,"last 75 years, member state painstakingli built unit nation peace, cooper development. duty-bound strengthen reinvigor world’ largest multilater organization, particularli face immens challeng opportun 21st century.",1
0,"field develop assist develop countri least develop countries, support countri affect neg impact climat change, qatar fulfil pledg provid contribut $100 million support least develop countri small island develop state deal climat change.",1
1,"devast impact crisi economi indisputable! collaps econom growth consequ dearth sourc foreign exchang shock commod prices, well declin exports, invest migrant remittances, put world economi crisi situat like seen sinc 1930s.",1
0,"war impos us caus humanitarian catastrophe, destroy societi led wave collect displacement. also caus repression, forc disappear worst case poverti ever seen peopl decades. extend hand peace. done utmost support facilit effort unit nation current special envoy, mr. martin griffiths, well previou envoys, view save countri establish last comprehens peace. goal stop bloodlet yemen yemeni catastroph yemeni peopl accept iranian model territory, regardless circumst challenges.",1
2,deliber attack armenia 2017 led death 2 year old zahra guliyeva grandmother.,1
1,"pandem highlight import resili nation health system strong domest health financing. african union champion agenda among member states, emphasi spend more, spend better. goal africa leverag resourc reinforc impact global health partnerships, global fund gavi.",1
2,"respond determin fast world recovers, shape abil achiev sustain develop goal manag global challenges.",1
1,"however, econom financi indic countri sever neg consequ covid-19 call question time implement sustain develop goals, particularli develop countries.",1
0,"area development, organization’ adopt 2015 2030 agenda sustain develop still far ambiti tool ensur peoples’ welfare. 2030 agenda, capit experi gain millennium develop goals, integr three dimens sustain develop — economic, social environment — crosscut approach. organ also excel promot human rights. intern human right standard accordingli flourish variou areas, especi regard women children.",1
2,"unlimit support brother kingdom saudi arabia, made much progress implement riyadh agreement, aim establish stabil enabl us address regrett event took place provision capital, aden, august 2019. done utmost facilit implement agreement believ must pool effort ensur reconstruct development, auspic state. reiter trust brother kingdom saudi arabia continu implement agreement.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem come prove act coordination, respons share effici manner thu satisfactori result achieved.",1
1,"decis establish “green corridors” region use one, enabl smooth transport assistance, without delay border administr cross points.",1
0,today celebr first time anniversari would like take opportun urg join us — done alreadi — aim rais awar import reduc food loss wast contribut action sustain development.,1
2,"intern commun must move forward basi equal justic regard, elimin weapon mass destruction.",1
0,"base firm belief resolv disput peac means, grace god thank him, state qatar’ mediat effort culmin sign peac agreement unit state taliban movement, doha, 29 february, 2020, abl make exchang prison govern afghanistan taliban movement success discuss held doha last month.",1
2,"would also like call intern commun ensur current pandem result fail fulli honour commit made multilater level. must avoid fall prey nation protectionism, would way harm intern relat intern trade disrupt suppli chain distribut medic suppli necessari emerg health crisis.",1
0,"five year ago, sustain develop goal adopted, defin ambit integr global development. ten year remain 2030, let’ deceiv difficult meet target time. countries, especi africa, alreadi off-track 2020. pandem disrupt growth revenu collect around world, like sever year come.",1
0,"number verifi violat children still worri education, one priorities, still attack. particularli worri impact covid-19 vulner group children arm conflicts.",1
2,"econom front, econom situat continu increasingli weigh citizen result econom distort caus defunct regime. furthermore, profound reform set implement, aim remedi structur defect sudanes economy, indirectli increas cost living. reform pain arduous, necessari long term. order mitig effects, start implement social programm support famili provid direct financi aid poorest famili aim mitig effect reforms. programm also aim support product provid direct support agricultur labour group product rural urban areas. govern also support establish cooper project implement commod programme, project aim provid basic commod citizens.",1
2,"adopt constitut declar 17 august 2019 constitut second stage victori revolution, make peac put end war top prioriti transit government. basi upon juba process launched. simpli negoti two war parties, past, rather process dialogu partner revolut order achiev peac cessat war, well address root caus conflict. juba peac agreement sign 3 october.",1
0,"likewise, countri call stop foreign interfer syrian affair warn seriou implic syria’ uniti arab security. also reiter polit process way end syrian crisi protect secur people.",1
1,"must advanc principl green circular economies, sake environment sustain opportun job creation econom growth.",1
0,"no, enough. plan must abandon all. annex would serious undermin viabil last solut close door futur negotiations.",1
0,"regard health care, govern open dedic centr lome country’ econom regions, train personnel suppli critic laboratory, medic protect equipment. scientif committe develop treatment plan. taken variou social measur benefit population, particularli vulner sectors, order mitig impact pandem — reduc cost water electricity, remov tax basic needs, provid food distribut subsid disadvantag citizen novissi cash transfer programme, and, lastly, support businesses. would therefor like take opportun express sincer thank variou partner assist togo fight pandemic.",1
0,"digit sector romania amount 6 per cent gdp import driver growth innovation. see digit opportun everyon key compon econom development. romania’ digit transform aim make countri less bureaucratic, resilient, attract foreign investment. also potenti turn romania region innov hub.",1
1,deliber attack armenia 2017 led death 2 year old zahra guliyeva grandmother.,1
2,"commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, proper reflect are, come going. unit nation stood lofti ideal build intern system collabor common purpose. system allow us collect call account choos conflict peace, recogn digniti equal worth people. valu everi one us input make toward end.",1
0,critic item today’ agenda. issu environment protect climat chang remain focu joint efforts.,1
2,"likewise, countri call stop foreign interfer syrian affair warn seriou implic syria’ uniti arab security. also reiter polit process way end syrian crisi protect secur people.",1
1,"narrow nationalist polici undermin intern cooper make matter worse, better.",1
0,"surinam focu strongli gener invest busi opportunities. mainli reason administr develop act widest implement sdg number 17, promot facilit clean corrupt free public privat partnership  ppp .",1
2,"spirit solidar govern priorit sinc arriv pandem poverty, one safe, everyon safe.",1
1,"launch effici measur tackl problem freshwat shortag due climat change. azerbaijan ratifi pari agreement, voluntari oblig achiev 35 per cent reduct greenhous ga emiss 2030 compar base year 1990. azerbaijan, use environment friendli natur ga hydroelectr power station electr generation.",1
1,call suppli medic equip drug vaccin develop effort made issu competition.,1
2,"mani peopl around world, 2020 year unparallel challenge. covid-19 unleash complex web health, econom social issu sore test government, busi commun systems. pandem expos exist vulner alert us threat new ones. seen exacerb alreadi unaccept high rate global inequ poverti face.",1
0,"outset, allow me, behalf govern peopl solomon islands, offer sincerest condol lost love one coronavirus. stand solidar all, sad times.",1
2,"requir involv everybody, public authorities, civil societi privat initiative, scienc knowledge, inspir sustain develop goal principl human right lie core actions.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem decim economi exacerb poverty, also shown us interconnect interdepend world is, must work togeth respond effect challeng confront us today.",1
0,"addition, also in-countri test capacity. possibl assist people’ republ china australia, may add manifest theme. said, put place standard oper procedur differ sector guid us deal global pandemic. object two-fold. number one prioriti protect countri keep viru breach borders. second object keep economi afloat. confid viru breach border contain manag quarantin stations.",1
1,"effect climat breakdown continu impact us long we’v dealt pandemic, covid-19 present new opportun take action climat chang countri make drastic chang infrastructure, job investment.",1
0,"viet nam pursu foreign polici independence, self-reliance, multilater diversif relations. reliabl partner active, respons member intern community, viet nam attach import work un expand comprehens cooper organization. viet nam work member state make un democratic, transpar effective.",1
2,"why, start pandemic, argentina focus primarili protect live care vulnerable, implement seri emerg measur prevent collaps health system mitig immedi impact pandemic.",1
0,"venezuela recogn that, 75 years, unit nation organ given great contribut humanity. however, demand effort preserv achievements, advanc new objectives. insist need strengthen south-south cooper creat altern mechan financ technic support back initi prioriti defin peopl achiev sustain develop goals. time urgent task everi day counts. “the south also thinks, south also matters, south also exists”, poet benedetti said, centenni presence.",1
2,"mher yegiazarian, armenian journalist politician die prison follow hunger strike januari 2019. reaction intern organ whose duti observ democraci human right worldwide. human right watch, amnesti international, freedom hous other turn blind eye unhuman brutal action despot regim armenia. reason pashinyan regim financ support soro sponsor mani so-cal human right non-government organ worldwide.",1
2,"current threaten complex situat prove state peopl world interconnect regular dialogue, trust close cooper among us extrem important.",1
1,"sinc earli day covid-19 outbreak uzbekistan, focus effort resourc contain danger diseas and, importantly, save people’ lives.",1
1,"iranian regim interf yemen support coup carri surrogate, houthi militia, legitim government. led political, economic, humanitarian crisi fratern peopl yemen suffering. coup threat secur countri region sea lane vital global economy. furthermore, houthi militia imped flow humanitarian aid yemeni people. also obstruct effort reach polit solut yemen reject effort deescal situation, latest ceasefir announc made coalit support legitimaci yemen last april respons un’ request, order allow effort combat covid-19 pandem yemen proceed. instead, continu target civilian yemen kingdom.",1
0,sid made heroic effort shore job unemploy grow provid social safeti net peopl respons covid-19 limit capac resourc have.,1
0,"hard over-emphasis open, rules-bas multilater trade system foundat sustain global recovery. system allow countri trade good servic mutual benefici ways. rais hundr million peopl poverty. aftermath covid-19, look way support strengthen system make work better future. also need rebuild safe reliabl transport network facilit resumpt peopl mobility.",1
1,"introduc seri unpreced measur save live peopl mitig econom destruction,minimis unemploy secur workers’ incomes. ensur inclus approach factor specif need differ stakehold seychelles, consult privat sector, trade unions, civil societi inter-faith organis required.",1
1,"need unit nation 4.0, foundat valu intact vision incorpor immens technolog chang way, make human, democrat social inclusive.",1
1,"terror remain one promin challeng face world pose real threat intern peac security, imped achiev sustain develop peoples. state qatar spare effort activ particip intern region effort address phenomenon tackl roots, especi support educ million children, youth women creat job opportun young men.",1
0,year 2020 rememb massiv groundswel push back frontier racism umbrella #blacklivesmatt movement.,1
1,australia support who’ effort develop global framework vaccin therapeut alloc fairly.,1
0,"accordingly, belaru advoc support pragmat initi within un order fulli realiz potenti organ maintain intern peac security.",1
0,"context endeavor prepar appropri condit reach peac respond econom humanitarian difficulti face brother palestine, we, coordin intern partners, continu provid humanitarian development aid cater urgent longterm need besieg gaza strip, addit increas contribut unrwa.",1
2,"invest huge effort order help surviv economy, firstli thank disciplin respons manag public finance. despit crisi effects, serbia excel result economi first two quarter year strong reason believ end year remain among stabl economi europe.",1
0,"that, unilater action provision institut self-govern pristina declar independ so-cal kosovo, un sc resolut 1244  1999  violat stabil republ serbia, also entir region, serious endangered. let remind republ serbia fulli commit find compromis solut issu kosovo metohija. polit respons one  everyth protect interest people, also region peac stability.",1
0,"intern commun must move forward basi equal justic regard, elimin weapon mass destruction.",1
1,"success avert crisis, need respons leadership. ultim respons govern polit leader make decis base fact knowledge, polit calcul selfish interest power. opposit — incompetence, disinform popul — fatal consequences.",1
1,"graduat categori least develop countri import mileston develop trajectori develop country. solomon island transit phase graduat schedul graduat 2024. however, time solomon island underw triennial review, pass vulner criterion. vulner becom glaringli obviou covid-19 exacerb preexist challeng face solomon island made pathway toward sustain graduat smooth transit extrem difficult.",1
1,"mani peopl around world, 2020 year unparallel challenge. covid-19 unleash complex web health, econom social issu sore test government, busi commun systems. pandem expos exist vulner alert us threat new ones. seen exacerb alreadi unaccept high rate global inequ poverti face.",1
1,"even if, countri end imf programm give short-term relief, unless suspens debt payments, debt forgiv debt rescheduling, recov economi  certainli achiev un sustain develop goals, debt stock enlarg compound interest result unpaid debts.",1
2,"presid republic, strict agreement government, took advantag impact covid-19 establish econom recoveri plan, center people, reactiv nation economy, measur short, medium long term. mean stop loss job income.",1
2,"also discuss corpor turn 70,000 megawatt wind, 220,000 megawatt solar renew energy, therebi becom hub renew energi green industri region.",1
1,"welcom tireless effort made un secretary-general, unit nation special agencies, foundat programm provid immedi long-term assist member state tackl humanitarian socio-econom repercuss covid-19 pandemic.",1
1,"also spirit contribut peac stabil region, context challeng state face concern insert region find itself, countri commit process join asean, region block 600 million inhabitants.",1
1,"also would like highlight exemplari manner tackl problem result covid-19 pandemic, whose effect consequ would taken dramat proport experienc now, world health organ special agenc unit nation system act quickli pass recommend greatli help control spread disease.",1
2,"context, congratul aptli chosen theme 75th session welcom opportun address assembl share perspect “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action.” small nation like well big nation anticip even depend us share care other.",1
1,"natur relat africa countri coloni past redefin order transform pain histori colon opportun mutual benefici cooperation, cannot lose sight fact conquest enslav africa strong resist peopl africa defend invas free coloni yoke claim million live africa left deep wound remain unhealed.",1
1,"situat continu without appropri respons intern community, mani countries, like mine, unabl pay exist debt qualifi new borrowings.",1
2,ensur countri left behind reiter posit african union econom sanction zimbabw sudan lift allow govern respond adequ pandemic. also call suspens interest payment africa’ extern public debt.,1
1,"session therefor take place extrem unusu context world disrupt ever. human tragedi result put multilater test urg us act resolut togeth halt scourge. welcom choic theme session gener assembly, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — address covid-19 effect multilater action”. mani ways, theme emblemat overal environ anxiety, compel us unit solidar determined. covid-19 pandem requir immens sacrific us, success halt crisi depend willing unit effort counter pandem prevent popul fall back extrem poverty. unfortun fact covid-19 pandem slow effort meet sever sustain develop goals, includ area health, hunger decent work. therefor imper intern commun adopt concerted, global coher approach respond appropri pandemic. regard, commend initi secretary-gener who, begin pandemic, launch global respons unit nation system address pandem guid state safeguard advers consequ pandemic.",1
0,"also experienc whole new challeng coronaviru pandemic. diseas directli affect million peopl claim import thing: live hundr thousand people. quarantines, border closures, numer seriou troubl citizen almost state constitut present-day realia. especi difficult elderli peopl who, due necessari restrictions, abl hug love ones, children grandchildren week even months.",1
0,"addition, avail opportun want invit friend particip establish intern crimea platform concert action protect right crimean de occupi peninsula.",1
1,"course, come sponsor financi terrorism, current turkish regim reign supreme. turkish regim one main sponsor terror syria region. facilit passag ten thousand foreign terrorist syria continu provid form support al-nusra front affili terrorist group massacr syrians. carri ‘turkification’ forc displac polici territori occupi syria. consid collect punish million civilian reject turkish occup hasakah dozen towns, turkish regim deliber repeatedli cut city’ water supply, endang live civilians, especi covid-19 pandemic. legal terms, amount war crime crime humanity. way, crimin behavior terrorist exhibit cut water suppli million civilian damascu 2017. then, like today, self-styl human right defend even lift finger.",1
1,"2019 difficult year albania. struck two power earthquakes, left 50 peopl dead billion us dollar damages.",1
2,"azerbaijan taken time necessari prevent measur stop spread virus. azerbaijan’ attain millennium develop goal progress toward achiev sustain develop goal enabl us conduct effect fight pandemic. healthcar infrastructur azerbaijan develop renov significantly, almost 700 hospit healthcar facil built complet renov past 17 years.",1
0,"respons leadership also mean willing seeth common global interest. preserv best exist architectur intern organ regim cooperation. often driver effect solutions. know work alway perfect. instead resent defund them, need find way improv them.",1
1,"anoth action remov doubt may convict commit fight climat chang area role play head pro tempor secretariat ibero-american summit period two year motto “innov sustain development- object 2030”. joint declar adopt environ minist environ confer 16 septemb last, one high point presid allow us build environment agenda among 22 member state ibero-american conference.",1
2,"deep concern disregard intern law wit lately. view current situat necessari consolid effort aim strengthen role intern law, multilater legal instrument global secur system, strict complianc state gener accept norm deriv un charter. way could sustain stabil predict global polit mitig risk conflicts.",1
2,world live fearsom intern peac secur threat worldwid geostrateg tensions.,1
2,unusu gather today prove ongo covid-19 pandem chang world know it. onlin form evid adapt act.,1
1,commenc cooper intern organ region partner institut elabor two strategi paper new period clear evid success achiev direction.,1
1,"throughout 75 year exist unit nations, common thread tapestri collect action recognit global challeng best overcom practic multilater base mutual respect trust. ever time demonstr true spirit global partnership reaffirm rules-bas commitments.",1
2,"mind, address three major topics. first, speak imper find collect unit respons global health emerg brought covid-19 pandemic.",1
1,"outset, allow me, behalf govern peopl solomon islands, offer sincerest condol lost love one coronavirus. stand solidar all, sad times.",1
2,"new kind industri revolution, combin pandemic, present challeng plan execut gathering, yet unga leadership manag creativ transform experi one efficient, effective, conveni far less risky. want congratul excel volkan bozkir assum presid 75th session unga, also success overcom particular challeng host massiv gather global leader pandemic.",1
0,"approach, though tested, save live livelihood protected, best abl to, vulnerable.",1
2,"face vulner exacerb pandemic, anoth driver inequ unemploy upend world — 4th industri revolution. digit age upon us, challeng us adapt way consume, way work, way govern.",1
0,"call intern commun —especi secur council — assum legal respons oblig israel lift sieg gaza strip, put peac process back track credibl negoti base intern resolut force, address final statu issues, end occup within specifi time frame establish independ palestinian state within 1967 borders, east jerusalem capital, end isra occup arab territories.",1
1,"similar context, countri express deep concern regard turkey’ militari interfer libya, alarm part region interfer arab affair exacerb humanitarian crisis, undermin effort reach peac solution, destabil entir region. therefore, countri support repeat call immedi ceasefir libya call upon parti commit polit process auspic unit nation build outcom berlin conference. sinc outbreak conflict libya, countri call peac polit solut crisi order achiev last secur stability.",1
2,"“the revis format year’ gener debat perfect illustration, needed, scale upheav world caus covid-19 pandemic, unfortun continu rage. invis relentless enemi caus enorm human damage, also profound impact aspect econom social life, put nation global respons capac test.",1
0,"socio-econom wellb peopl remain core samoa’ develop initiatives. promotion, respect of, protect fulfil human right fundament freedoms, indispens ensur one left behind. commit human right approach sustain development. continu invest robust system process improv effect inclus implement human right obligations. ensur linkag core sustain develop nation secur priorities.",1
2,"human rights, intern agreement instrument establish principl oblig protect human rights, rule law, good governance, emphasi vulner group children, elderly, person disabilities, low-incom earners, well migrant workers. therefor respons remain commit oblig continu ensur progress implementation. thailand, current implement 4th nation human right plan results-ori mindset. also proud thailand first countri asia enact nation action plan busi human rights, implement sinc 2019.",1
2,"theme chosen 75th session render us time opportun again, turn eye toward strength multilater address multipl complex challeng world face today.",1
2,simpl reason “intern community” develop common approach. therefor probabl pandem someth else.,1
0,"“such case deadli 23 march attack perpetr boko haram chadian defenc secur forc boma lac province. vigor respons launch forces, led clear island lake chad boko haram terrorist elements.",1
1,"five year ago, sustain develop goal adopted, defin ambit integr global development. ten year remain 2030, let’ deceiv difficult meet target time. countries, especi africa, alreadi off-track 2020. pandem disrupt growth revenu collect around world, like sever year come.",1
2,"believ un prestig could strengthen enhanc role humanitarian human compon multilater bilater relations, name people-to-peopl youth exchanges, cultur ties, social educ programs, well cooper sports, science, technology, environ health protection.",1
0,"outset, would like first foremost thank almighti god, enabl us come togeth debat issu dear heart behalf humankind.",1
1,"establish owe virus’ highli contagi nature, prevent measur take today suffici counter eventu elimin it. vaccin therefor continu last solution. regard, countri encourag research way throughout world achiev goal. although promising, alreadi deal issu access futur vaccines. true pharmaceut compani commit enorm financi resourc end, must sacrific human econom profit. therefor need ensur access futur covid-19 vaccin equitable, afford subject market forces. accordingly, welcom adopt resolut wha73.1 gener assembl world health organ  , pursuant member state provid full access vaccin relat medicin shall timely, equitable, high quality, safe afford all. countri also welcom covax facil initi launch — mechan group purchas eventu covid-19 vaccines, coordin global allianc vaccin immun — guarante everi particip countri fair equit access vaccin alloc framework intend set up.",1
1,"trinidad tobago join famili nation 1962, year attain independence. small island develop state, continu embrac principl collect secur enshrin charter major safeguard small states, rule law, absenc militari econom power, sustain strength sovereignty. mark 75th anniversari unit nations, states, small large, reason proud achiev umbrella rever organisation, creation roadmap global sustain development, advanc develop intern law promot gender equality.",1
1,"effect climat chang lead inter alia food insecurity, large- scale displacement, social tensions, exacerbating, prolong contribut risk futur conflicts. although greenhous ga emiss project drop 6 per cent 2020, air qualiti improv result travel ban econom slowdown result pandemic, global commun far track meet either 1.5 2°c target call pari agreement. decad 2010 2019 warmest decad ever. govern privat sector must acceler transit climat relationship environ make transform chang economies.",1
1,"behalf peopl el salvador also express heartfelt thank countries, repres privat enterpris volunt throughout world help continu help us. help enabl us continu save thousand lives, term pandemic, also future. everi life save save togeth repres gener save — hundr thousand futur live stori preserv thank recent action. thank god give us opportun everyon help us that.",1
0,"activ member unit nations, made contribut reinforc awar sustain develop goals. experi point need state strong institut capabl face challeng threat modern times. convinc intern conflict must resolv negoti dialogue. tool allow promot peac necessari humankind. concern recent increas tension maritim disput south china sea. proudli say first countri use compulsori concili mechanism, advoc unit nation convent law sea. call parti involv resolv differ dialogu negoti order achiev peac solution.",1
1,"today’ imper combat pandem togeth multilater joint action, deed word alone, build equal world, better equip withstand crise achiev real sustain develop all.",1
2,"number verifi violat children still worri education, one priorities, still attack. particularli worri impact covid-19 vulner group children arm conflicts.",1
2,"see need review whole sdgs, pandem also derail us ldc graduat track. current plan design help bhutan graduat ldc categori 2023. everyth changed, focu shift save live livelihood challeng pose pandemic.",1
0,drought flood season occurr afghanistan. need region solut base intern model address problem climat change.,1
2,"numer signific intern effort respond crise begin great promis — think two global compact refuge migrat — yet mani lack necessari polit support prove successful. other fail individu state shirk respons commitments. same, current crisi offer opportun unit nation help build fratern compassion society.",1
0,"prospect achiev sustain develop hing heavili safeti secur people. global pandem unfortun exacerb threat pose illicit traffick small arm light weapons, piracy, traffick person cybercrimes. given ardent desir free societi effect preval unregul small arm light weapons, trinidad tobago remain fulli commit arm trade treati  att  view indispens address menac illicit arm trade.",1
0,"regard, reiter urgent need reform organ achiev un secur council attend better represent peoples, nation continents.",1
1,"pandem threat intern peac security. sweden eu strongli support implement secretary-general’ call global ceasefire. un secur council enorm responsibility. succeed mandat task up-hold intern peac security, must reform effect address current futur challenges.",1
1,futur multilater depend transform global respons covid 19 pandemic.,1
1,"note pandemic, estim 783 million peopl live extrem poverti globally. however, june 2020, world bank project pandem could push addit 71 million peopl extrem poverti 2020, therefor revers gain made recent decades.",1
0,"thus, timor-lest believ pari agreement climat chang sustain develop goal embodi essenti mean issu road reconstruct countries. develop famili farming, ration plan use natur resources, fight pollut intellig polici protect environment, engag citizen crucial issu must respect life possibl planet.",1
0,"along pandemic, draw attent challeng misinform disinform pandemic. spread “infodemic” put health risk, increas risk conflicts, violence, human right violat mass atrocities. covid-19 crisi demonstr crucial need access free, reliable, trustworthy, factual, clear science-bas information. states, region organizations, un system stakehold media workers, social media platform ngo clear role respons help peopl deal “infodemic’. countri attach great import fight disinformation. reason, organ 2019, san marino, high-level confer danger disinformation. reason, join year cross-region statement “infodemic” context covid-19 support unit nation commun respons initi “verified” campaign announc un secretari gener april.",1
1,"time, invest strengthen state govern structur creat environ conduc growth. mean continu combat system corruption, improv public financi manag systems, strengthen provinci district level governance.",1
2,"tajikistan experienc horror impos civil war, valu well percept import overwhelm protect peace.",1
1,also use transform power digit prepar econom prescript surviv crisis.,1
2,"intens crisi demonstr glare socio-econom gap within countries. better defin expos uniqu financi human resourc endow strength, capac abil cope challenges. pandem underscor individu strength weak without collect differenti commit solidarity. reiter re-emphas live global villag therefore, need other. conclud that, without collect commit multilateralism, never accomplish ideal “decad action delivery” pinnacl 2030 agenda — leav one behind.",1
0,"admittedly, africa continu face polit secur challenges, hinder sustain develop efforts.",1
1,“we therefor call intern commun greater sustain support multin joint task forc lake chad basin g-5 sahel joint forc establish countri region combat boko haram jihadist group sahel.,1
0,"respect, san marino welcom strateg prepared respons plan address immedi health needs, produc who, global humanitarian respons plan eas impact 63 highli vulner countries, un covid-19 respons recoveri fund, socioeconom respons recoveri middle- lower-incom countries. republ san marino support un secretary-general’ call global cease-fire, issu 23 march, urg war parti corner world pull back hostilities. moreover, countri join secretari general’ global call emphas need end violenc women everywhere, includ home.",1
0,"desir peac achiev israel’ full commit term refer decis intern legitimaci accept arab upon arab peac initi based, israel tri circumv act palestinian caus exist. arrang base term refer achiev peace, even call peace. may intent solut palestinian cause, achiev comprehensive, last peace.",1
2,"must first identifi driver turmoil. five sources, afghanistan deal simultaneously. covid-19 pandem expos vulnerabilities, point we, global community, could longer afford ignor them. afghan fortun contain first wave pandem close government, busi societ cooperation, minim input un agencies, pandem expos gap system must addressed.",1
2,"context, 75th session, turkmenistan intend intensifi work elabor intern legal instrument un field stabil reliabl energi transit.",1
0,"“the gener assembl approv quadrenni comprehens polici review oper activ develop unit nation system reposit unit nation develop system 2016 2018 respectively, order make develop system strategic, accountable, transparent, collaborative, efficient, effect results-oriented. approv aros need reposit unit nation oper activ develop support countri nation effort implement 2030 agenda sustain development. commend secretary-gener progress made far implement approv reform consult member states. uganda work within group 77  g-77  china next cycl quadrenni comprehens polici review ensur receiv appropri polici guidanc next four year support countri acceler implement 2030 agenda jurisdictions.",1
2,"botswana acceler access inclusive, equit qualiti educ through, amongst interventions, implement educ train sector strateg plan. etssp, it’ commonli known, aim transform learn ensur access, retention, promot life-long learn skill development.",1
1,"tajikistan 93 per cent territori cover mountains, bear loss equal hundr million dollar annual result water-rel disasters.",1
1,optimist implement second phase eas busi reform help improv world bank rankings.,1
0,"new kind industri revolution, combin pandemic, present challeng plan execut gathering, yet unga leadership manag creativ transform experi one efficient, effective, conveni far less risky. want congratul excel volkan bozkir assum presid 75th session unga, also success overcom particular challeng host massiv gather global leader pandemic.",1
2,covid-19 initi appear healthcar crisi gradual turn justifi global socio-econom financi crisis. state affair current situat certainli requir activ coordin actions.,1
0,"adopt sustain develop agenda 2030 well pari climat chang agreement key step face biggest challeng today — global econom instability, grow social inequ climat chang effects.",1
0,"decarbon remain central effort combat impact climat change, help build resili small vulner economi societies. need clean afford energi energi efficiency, renew electrification. pari agreement’ 2020 commit updat ndc develop low emiss develop strategi remain critical. synerg covid19 recoveri effort acceler transit decarbon build resilience.",1
1,reason problem exist region today one-sid step taken greec greek cypriot sinc 2003 maximalist demands.,1
2,"success depend strengthen institutions, nation international, includ work scientists, innovators, creators. question funding. posit human valu citizen govern invest institutions, must accountable.",1
1,launch mitig protect strategi forestal advers effect climat chang especi vulner populations. urg intern cooper urgent implement pari agreement climat change.,1
1,"sao tome & princip prepar graduat categori medium- incom countri decemb 2024, fact proud, reflect recognit effort countri undertaken progress achiev key area sustain development.",1
1,"see today ruthless escal militias, particularli governor ma’rib, al-jawf al-bayda, houthi militia engag indiscrimin militari campaign sever months. attack residenti area ballist missiles, concern whatsoev civilian live million displac peopl fled region militia’ control. terrorist militia repeatedli target civilian civilian infrastructur kingdom saudi arabia. clearli demonstr true intent view peace.",1
2,"area development, organization’ adopt 2015 2030 agenda sustain develop still far ambiti tool ensur peoples’ welfare. 2030 agenda, capit experi gain millennium develop goals, integr three dimens sustain develop — economic, social environment — crosscut approach. organ also excel promot human rights. intern human right standard accordingli flourish variou areas, especi regard women children.",1
2,"encourag welcom fact albanian factor continu support european euro atlant cours throughout region, strengthen time region cooper ownership ambiti projects.",1
0,"but, minds, also led uncertainti question future.",1
0,"region suffer mani decad attempt forc extrem chao seek impos malign view polici order hijack countries’ present future, pay heed aspir peopl region development, prosperity, peace. kingdom, chose path futur vision 2030 aspir creat robust economi commun interact surround contribut activ progress civil humankind.",1
1,"covid-19 also shone new light exist global challeng conflicts, includ escal threat arm race terror  continu human right abus  climat chang  displac peopl  scourg non-communic disease, disrupt technolog revolut redefin futur work. around world see fallout pandem deepen commun divisions, escal geopolit tensions, chang trade relat threaten peace.",1
2,pandem emphas interconnect collect vulnerability. imper intern commun come togeth ralli behind vision charter advanc digniti human be larger freedom.,1
1,plan implement project aim strengthen africa’ capac third turkey-african union partnership summit intend hold turkey next year.,1
2,"persist violent extrem must continu receiv attent detriment equal import challeng human existence, reflect sustain develop goals, combat poverty, climat change, sea piracy, among others.",1
2,"throughout past 75 years, unit nation member state relentlessli overcom global challenges. year, world face health crisi spread covid-19 wide affect live condit peopl well econom social system — overshadow special natur 75th anniversari unit nations. indeed, great challeng shall litmu test faith multilater uniti member state provid sustain solut overcom threat.",1
1,"year 2020 undoubtedli rememb dark time, indel mark pandemic, whose devast effect everi aspect live demonstr — need demonstr — collect vulnerability.",1
0,"appreci support provid unit nation offic counter- terror partners, enhanc capac botswana’ newli establish counter terror analysi fusion agenc order enabl us mitig exposur menace.",1
0,"even though pandem shaken strongest world economies, say serbia manag keep stabl budget, well entir fiscal monetari system fulli prepar withhold assist measur economy, open potenti invest plans.",1
0,arbitrari engag countri like barbado must cease. done without knowledg involvement. contrari law natur justice. combin factor push countri back state postcoloni penury.,1
0,"like countries, temporarili close border regul movement peopl limit spread covid-19. prioriti was, alway be, protect live ensur safeti within borders. temporari closur border caus one largest declin visitor number sinc advent modern tourism bahamas.",1
1,"region tragic histori dictatorships, oppress militari conflicts. despit difficult legaci still haunt region, signific progress made past two decades, larg thank cycl reform trigger ongo nato european union enlarg processes.",1
1,rare opportun build better societi — societi resilient. opportun jointli address share challenges:,1
1,"tajikistan experienc horror impos civil war, valu well percept import overwhelm protect peace.",1
1,"follow logic neutral polici turkmenistan intend submit draft resolut “the role unit nation region centr prevent diplomaci central asia” gener assembly’ consider ensur region peace, security, develop unleash potenti prevent diplomacy.",1
2,remain hope agreement inject new dynam relat kosova serbia.,1
1,covid-19 pandem brought realiz directli face nations.,1
0,"also stand fratern peopl lebanon experienc humanitarian catastroph result explos port beirut, occur result hegemoni hizbollah, terrorist organ affili iran, decis make process lebanon forc arms. led disabl constitut state institut lebanon. order fratern peopl lebanon achiev aspir security, stability, prosperity, terrorist organ must disarmed.",1
1,"need break present climat distrust. present, wit eros multilateralism, seriou light develop new form militari technology, lethal autonom weapon system  law  irrevers alter natur warfare, detach human agency.",1
2,"notabl climat change, undoubtedli greatest threat common future. expert estimate, 2100 climat chang five time deadli covid-19. abl organ creat 20 parallel team worldwid develop anti-covid vaccine, lack much need knowledge. climat change, know do. need show genuin act together, one. make real priority. let science, innovations, also solidar compass lead way.",1
2,"behind turkey’ success stori lie effect govern mechan establish presidenti govern system, high capac develop infrastructur invest area health, qualifi human resources.",1
1,"regard, secretary-general’ call large-scal multilater respons marshal financi resourc least 10 per cent world’ gdp deserv full support, show us way effect address global challenges.",1
0,"effect climat breakdown continu impact us long we’v dealt pandemic, covid-19 present new opportun take action climat chang countri make drastic chang infrastructure, job investment.",1
1,"sars-cov-2 pandem forc us unimagin situations. world brought sudden halt week first victim covid-19 announced: schools, factories, offices, roads, stadia etc. felt silent order fight invis enemi also allow us see world would never again.",1
2,"also would like highlight exemplari manner tackl problem result covid-19 pandemic, whose effect consequ would taken dramat proport experienc now, world health organ special agenc unit nation system act quickli pass recommend greatli help control spread disease.",1
2,"come back first driver — covid-19 pandem — scope scale impact forc us see four drivers, worsen highlight pandemic.",1
0,global crisi caus covid-19 also highlight sever gender inequality.,1
1,"country, highli depend tourism, closur borders, cessat cruis tourism limit aviation, effect devast economi overnight, result seriou loss revenues, also sudden signific loss jobs.",1
2,statement endors entirety. socio-econom sustain region compromis without proactiv debt suspens restructur ultim debt relief.,1
1,"seychelles’ protect nearli third eez ocean conservation, sustain climat action show countries’ respons health financi crisi caus covid19 need expens natur climate.",1
0,"awar serious complex problem relat neighbor commit resolv exclus dialogue, take consider interest interest parties.",1
0,"“climat chang remain one greatest challeng time. continu wit climate-chang disast across globe result consider loss life property. clear countri immun disasters. address climat chang call effect bold multilater action us. uganda, example, continu experi prolong droughts, melt ice cap highest mountain, mount rwenzori, floods, errat rainfal landslides. recent experienc impact intens prolong rainfal increas level major bodi water caus flood sever area country. govern continu invest climat adapt mitig measur includ expand access consumpt clean energi order enhanc production, well increas forest wetland cover, line ambiti nation determin contributions. invest enabl us halt, reduc revers environment degrad advers effect climat change, well improv sustain use natur resourc inclus econom growth.",1
0,"pandem prompt increas divis across world, well attempt weaken democracy. however, period facilit spread disinform mislead information, possibl vector spread violenc extremism.",1
1,countri make real progress address global issu other left behind sidelines.,1
0,"also thank state peopl japan, without whose help would never abl establish largest hospit region one advanc largest hospit treat coronaviru diseas world. forev grate deep admir govern great peopl japan, societi exemplifi give servic world.",1
2,covid crisi expos weak vulnerabilities. alreadi brink poverti left poor. difficult access health care found helpless. limit access educ lost hope better future. even stabl develop state face great econom social difficulties.,1
2,"believ global strateg collabor complimentari financi — econom approach required. achiev closer partnership imf, world bank wto.",1
1,reform inclus secur council abl collect resolv world’ protract conflicts.,1
2,"current chair sadc organ politics, defenc secur cooperation, botswana commit ensur close attent given imper combat terror secur threat order enhanc peac stabil sadc region.",1
0,"first, covid-19 result mount debt countri least afford servic them. essenti multilater financi institut provid debt forgiv relief. accompani tailor concession financ packag grants. measur ensur adequ fiscal space countri weather current crisis, also financ implement sustain develop priorities. acknowledg great work alreadi gone ahead area, however, believ need done.",1
0,"given experi countri gain counter terrorism, extrem illeg drug traffick view introduc tajik peac experi determin nomin first time tajikistan’ candidaci non-perman seat un secur council 2028-2029.",1
0,world live fearsom intern peac secur threat worldwid geostrateg tensions.,1
0,"thank govern peopl unit states, help us transform public system 31 intens care unit one 1,000 multifunct units, send us 600 respirators, time short suppli world.",1
0,"cannot fail acknowledg devast effect covid-19 crisi children, includ unaccompani young migrant refugees. violenc children, includ horribl scourg child abus pornography, also dramat increased.",1
0,"order share experi road travel implement sdgs, successes, current emerg challeng lesson learned, burundi submit voluntari nation review mechan 2020. remain convinc that, order sdgs, adopt 2015 becom reality, requir addit commitment, initiative, effort and, all, resources.",1
0,"take consider ongo process pandem impact, govern tajikistan along prevent spread infecti diseas exert effort undertak necessari measur aim ensur consist sustain oper socioeconom sector country.",1
1,"1.	encourag widespread use renew energi sources, would facilit friendli environ “green” economi development.",1
1,"multilater system advanc interest small states. larg nation also benefit act multilater institut gain polit legitimacy. benefit peaceful, stabl prosper global environment. multilater institut provid avenu countri pool idea work togeth deal common challeng face humanity, includ covid-19 now, also essenti us advanc share interests.",1
1,"conclusion, would like emphas yet anoth point: continu unrest variou part world, grow conflict violence, environment disast modern threat exacerb global problem miseri poverty.",1
1,"convinc cooper unit nation region organ essenti instrument consolid secur develop world. alway concern multitud unresolv conflict black sea region, affect stabil cooper neighbourhood. continu promot cooper unit nation variou organ region, includ current chairman black sea econom cooperation.",1
2,"“at time world face coronavirus, terror continu rage ground africa, particularli lake chad basin sahelo-saharan region, claim innoc victim daili basi serious compromis develop effort countri region.",1
0,covid crisi expos weak vulnerabilities. alreadi brink poverti left poor. difficult access health care found helpless. limit access educ lost hope better future. even stabl develop state face great econom social difficulties.,1
1,"action includ build capac small island develop state cope recov extern shock pandem like covid-19, form disasters, impact climat change.",1
1,"burkina faso thank un secretary-gener global call solidarity, launch 31 march 2020. call enabl establish global framework aim promot integr flexibl response, order make best use un system’ global footprint.",1
0,"sudan express solidar victim terror around world countri suffer terrorist attacks. renew reject condemn terror form manifest cooperation, access effect contribut intern bilater effort terror financing. commit implement relev intern resolut issu secur council.",1
2,"“a landlock sahelian country, alreadi confront number crises, chad suffer full-on mani repercuss pandem variou level nation life. attend country’ nation prioriti upended, state’ limit resourc redirect deal first foremost health, humanitarian socioeconom emergencies.",1
1,"numer signific intern effort respond crise begin great promis — think two global compact refuge migrat — yet mani lack necessari polit support prove successful. other fail individu state shirk respons commitments. same, current crisi offer opportun unit nation help build fratern compassion society.",1
2,"covid-19 expos vulner food secur systems. atol nation like tuvalu, agricultur difficult rise sea levels. last years, assist develop partners, invest new agricultur food product system resili climat chang sea level rise. acknowledg recent work peacebuild fund area would encourag assist scale initi develop food secur atol nations.",1
0,75th anniversari un foundat becom impetu transform organ dynam effici body.,1
0,"podium call intensif global effort confront great challeng face human area climat change, poverty, organ crime, spread epidemics, challeng requir strengthen cooper work bright futur gener come may live stability, peace, security.",1
0,"tajikistan experienc horror impos civil war, valu well percept import overwhelm protect peace.",1
0,"“in addit incalcul health human toll, pandem left indel mark global economy. across world, countri suffer sudden shock economies. beyond immedi challeng current crisis, need greater focu recoveri epidemic. impact covid-19 mitig act immedi collectively. applaud effort variou intern region organizations, unit nations, world health organization, movement non-align countries, african union  au , commonwealth, intergovernment author develop  igad  east african commun  eac , among others, deal pandemic.",1
1,statement endors entirety. socio-econom sustain region compromis without proactiv debt suspens restructur ultim debt relief.,1
0,"finally, imper ensur everi countri get timely, fair equit access covid-19 vaccines, mean work cooper competitively. un must especi ensur vulner countri world get access. medic break pray for, must unit effort mitig drastic impact crisi people.",1
1,"regard, exist situat opportun must take promot system intern coordin support.",1
0,"must seiz opportun un’ 75th anniversari present current covid-19 pandem reinvigor rules-bas multilater system. chanc collect recreat condit inclus econom growth envis 2030 agenda sustain development. need strengthen collect abil respond futur shocks, covid-19 clear present exampl shock, need abl respond multilater system.",1
0,"act uniti manag keep number case low. today, record 261 posit cases, 192 recovered. mortal covid-19 remain zero.",1
2,put right clean drink water constitution. recogn preserv water resourc key element protect biodiversity.,1
1,"even though pandem shaken strongest world economies, say serbia manag keep stabl budget, well entir fiscal monetari system fulli prepar withhold assist measur economy, open potenti invest plans.",1
1,"outset, would like first foremost thank almighti god, enabl us come togeth debat issu dear heart behalf humankind.",1
1,unflinch commit peac result adopt zero- toler polici toward terror violent extremism. nation effort complement intern cooper curb menace.,1
1,"“chad’ nation develop plan, firmli support donor round tabl held pari 2017, seen expect result owe low level anticip resources. therefore, order support govern effort promot sustain development, honour pledg financ effort crucial chad, current prepar second nation develop plan.",1
1,"covid-19 immedi crisis, climat chang remain singl greatest threat livelihoods, secur wellb pacif peopl long run. pacif island forum leader last year reaffirm commit kainaki ii declar urgent climat chang action now. share prosper secur blue pacif safe exist intern commun pursu effort limit global warm 1.5 °c.",1
2,"covid-19 significantli disrupt economi societi right across world. indeed, covid-19 reshap contour normal way things, place us “new normal”. therefore, must think outsid box, must also work outsid box. un member must work collabor togeth build back better countri economi that:",1
2,"second, unit nation charter fundament principl intern law must upheld advanc norm behavior countri contemporari intern relations. must resolut persever advanc cooper friendship counter conflict hostility. must choos dialogu confrontation, peac settlement disput unilater act imposition. spirit, viet nam call remov unilater sanction advers affect countries’ socio-econom develop people’ livelihoods, especi embargo impos upon cuba.",1
2,"allow conclud commend theme year’ gener assembl session. could come critic time, find face deadliest pandem affect modern world horrend ways. mani live tragic lost mani continu affect ongo onslaught. may take time paus reflect, viru chang live look way collabor togeth allevi impacts.",1
0,"therefor firmli condemn unjustifi polit diplomat aggress burundi peopl foreign governments, known attempt regim chang 2015 unconstitut means. power diplomaci must give way mutual benefici respect cooperation.",1
0,"allow conclud reaffirm commit revit post covid-19 multilater support theme session. multilater compris global solidar cooperation, empathy, inclus resilience, note import protect vulner individuals, address inequ ensur univers access afford covid-19 medic vaccine, build back better, leav one behind.mr. president,",1
0,"take opportun convey condol express solidar member state famili lost love one due covid-19 global pandemic. mourn loss hundr thousand person worldwide, covid-19, greatli concern alarm rate diseas continu affect million across globe.",1
1,"swearing-in june excel mr. evarist ndayishimiye, presid republ burundi, culmin long-await presidenti elect burundi. elections’ peac conclusion, tanzania urg intern commun assist new govern provid much need aid econom social develop citizen burundi region large.",1
1,"country, half popul young, extens work underway ensur everi young person take worthi place societi demonstr potential.",1
2,call intern commun support govern effort address econom challeng polici plan strengthen nation currenc view ensur household stability. intern commun allow houthi manipul humanitarian aid blackmail govern loot fund earmark payment salaries. continu undermin unit nation effort regard.,1
1,"govern commit issu why, first time history, creat ministri women, gender diversity, well nation cabinet, ensur gender polici cross-cutting.",1
0,"venezuela, tell you, necessari guarante hold parliamentari elect invit world join us, wit live democracy, noth nobodi abl take away venezuelan peopl right elect new legisl power, sinc fundament tool collect exist express origin power. one decid us venezuelan  interven intend case — ever — nation, respect thu demand respect.",1
1,"“such case deadli 23 march attack perpetr boko haram chadian defenc secur forc boma lac province. vigor respons launch forces, led clear island lake chad boko haram terrorist elements.",1
0,"pandem also pinpoint seri ethical, technolog humanitarian matters. instance, advanc digit technolog help quickli reorgan education, trade services, well set distant learn onlin cours peopl differ ages. artifici intellig assist doctor make accur time diagnos find best treatment.",1
2,"firm action also need order tackl climat environment emergencies. rise sea level catastroph weather events, longer afford ignor risk climat change. duti futur gener turn glasgow cop26 success achiev goal pari agreement.",1
0,"efforts, along intern partners, conven intra-afghan peac negoti began 12th month, doha, culmin success, ensu success depend afghan brother themselves. exert effort cooper intern commun facilit dialogue, hope peac stabil soon prevail across afghanistan, everyon decid complet renounc violence, accept diversity, differ equal citizenship country.",1
1,"human rights, intern agreement instrument establish principl oblig protect human rights, rule law, good governance, emphasi vulner group children, elderly, person disabilities, low-incom earners, well migrant workers. therefor respons remain commit oblig continu ensur progress implementation. thailand, current implement 4th nation human right plan results-ori mindset. also proud thailand first countri asia enact nation action plan busi human rights, implement sinc 2019.",1
1,"rare unit nation multilater test test year un’ 75th anniversary, year world grappl covid-19 pandemic.",1
0,"well-known, ancient cultur rich spiritu heritag region global importance.",1
1,"venezuela tradit host countri refuge migrants. however, direct consequ crimin unilater coerciv measur econom aggress impos govern unit state people, process migrat citizen taken place, fundament econom reasons.",1
2,"us, sdg reson well development plan base principl gnh. reason, bhutan track becom earli achiev sdgs, shown voluntari review 2018.",1
0,"peac environ indispens address pandemic, must recommit dialogue, peac disput resolut rule law order allevi suffer bring hope vulner populations.",1
1,"would like start intervent congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir elect presid gener assembly, would also like congratul secretari general, antonio guterres, secretariat unit nations. celebr 75th anniversari unit nation great assembl peopl world, creat primari object construct multilater way implement system valu code conduct base cooperation, undoubtedli rememb year sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook pillar societies.",1
2,"country, highli depend tourism, closur borders, cessat cruis tourism limit aviation, effect devast economi overnight, result seriou loss revenues, also sudden signific loss jobs.",1
0,"thankfully, still confirm suspect case covid-19 vanuatu. earli border closur gave us preciou window prepar health responses, also come seriou econom social costs. top that, april, countri hit yet anoth severe, categori five tropic cyclone. sever compound disast alreadi left endur scar families, commun nation. limit resourc strain ongo recoveri effort previou disasters. ever loom threat futur disast extrem weather events, fuell exacerb climat change. even so, experi assur us work together, recover, build back better emerg stronger resilient.",1
0,"refus power help reviv economi — whether moratoria refinancing, even access concession loan grant — caus us greater econom hardship.",1
1,theme chosen 75th session gener assembl pertin current moment experienc world. convinc multilater best way us combin effort togeth mitig effect econom financi crisi covid-19 pandem impos world.,1
2,"current crisi also demonstr solidar must empti word promise. also shown us import avoid everi temptat exceed natur limits. “we freedom need limit direct technolog  put servic anoth type progress, one healthier, human, social, integral”. also need taken care consider discuss complex issu artifici intellig  ai .",1
2,it’ messag serv power antidot rise intoler violent extrem undermin peac security.,1
1,"terrorist extremist group pose tremend challeng nation security, serious jeopard stabil countri differ regions.",1
0,"also success defeat menac global terror effort brave arm forc collabor amisom intern partner make world safer place. confid government’ effort continu support import intern partners, somalia confront covid-19 contribut posit multilater effort requir make world better, resili equal place all.",1
2,"light high mortal level devast effect disease, high rate spread, must continu use mechan multilater offer us term intern solidarity, order intensifi combat disease, deter loss human lives, relaunch econom develop process countries.",1
1,"take account initi secretari general, turkmenistan approv nation plan prepared prevent respons acut infecti diseas state level. plan oper social econom measur turkmenistan counteract coronaviru pandem also develop adopted.",1
0,"general, free world trade barriers, bans, restrict illegitim sanction would great help revit global growth reduc unemployment. accord experts, total partial reduct global employ second quarter year equal loss 400 million jobs, utmost prevent unemploy grow long-term ensur peopl return work support famili instead find imprison poverti prospect life.",1
0,"end, govern introduc econom polici reform stimul fast-track transform mani sectors. action aim creat enabl environ privat sector develop pursuit goal 8, is, decent work econom growth.",1
1,"fact, happen pandem shown us sustain develop goal import guid combat kind global crises.",1
2,post-pandem world exacerb sever refuge displac person crisi face planet region. answer promot guarante human right migrants.,1
1,"countri also continu call peac settlement disputes. context, reiter uae’ firm posit legitim right sovereignti three islands: greater tunb, lesser tunb, abu musa, occupi iran flagrant violat intern law un charter, total disregard histor record clearli affirm uae’ ownership island island arab rule sinc ancient times. therefore, uae give demand iran return island right owners. countri call iran peac resolv issu direct negotiations, intern court justice. however, iran answer calls.",1
2,"general, free world trade barriers, bans, restrict illegitim sanction would great help revit global growth reduc unemployment. accord experts, total partial reduct global employ second quarter year equal loss 400 million jobs, utmost prevent unemploy grow long-term ensur peopl return work support famili instead find imprison poverti prospect life.",1
1,"pandem place enorm pressur abil democrat institut function seriou consequ human rights. far mani leader govern use pretext attempt silenc opposition, civil societi human right defenders.",1
1,pandem come show global level weak health structur respond problem high magnitud severity.,1
2,"launch effici measur tackl problem freshwat shortag due climat change. azerbaijan ratifi pari agreement, voluntari oblig achiev 35 per cent reduct greenhous ga emiss 2030 compar base year 1990. azerbaijan, use environment friendli natur ga hydroelectr power station electr generation.",1
2,express hope talk serv bring peac stabil long-suff land afghanistan.,1
2,"aggress azerbaijan, armenia continu face deep demographic, social econom crisis. regim chang happen armenia two year ago, fascist ideolog fail state remain unchanged.",1
0,"reiter import confront covid-19 effect multilater action, want recogn enabl econom financi support provid somali feder govern mitig worst covid-19 econom pressur intern financi institut mani multilater institut somalia success reach decis point attain debt relief mani major intern creditors. progress toward achiev debt cancel enabl econom reforms, remain cogniz somalia’ econom futur prosper peopl close interlink rest world. regard, futur want somalia one promot greater partnership intern trade, enhanc foreign direct invest key product sector potenti feed world develop human capit creat opportun us all. unit nation need inclus global multilater platform propel idea aspir chang realiz too. covid-19 econom challeng us sustain develop goal ever realized, world must recov better, all, together.",1
0,"multilater system advanc interest small states. larg nation also benefit act multilater institut gain polit legitimacy. benefit peaceful, stabl prosper global environment. multilater institut provid avenu countri pool idea work togeth deal common challeng face humanity, includ covid-19 now, also essenti us advanc share interests.",1
0,"therefore, sustain develop aspir futur gener must centr share human harmoni law nature.",1
1,"escal alarm situat countri urg intern commun undertak extra measur coordin action fight terrorism, cope drug manufactur traffick narcotics, likewis deliv time assist govern peopl afghanistan.",1
0,"magnitud public health emerg requir unpreced mobil resources. govern institutions, civil social organ invest great energi fight covid-19. however, first respons heroic effort come health professionals. therefore, would like take advantag gener debat unit nation vindic work. demonstr profession value, also shown immens human quality, because, unfortunately, viru often depriv us contact accompani person near us, necessari moment difficulty. however, spite all, men women health servic provid constant support peopl famili live adversity.",1
2,bring current polit crisi mali relat insurg sahel grave concern respond urgent provid unambigu support ongo effort initi econom commun west african state  ecowa .,1
2,"2019, brazil victim crimin seepag venezuelan oil, sold without proper control, result seriou damag environ major loss fish tourism industries.",1
2,"session coincid seventy-fifth anniversari creation unit nations. opportun review organization’ work explor way develop organ becom effect flexibl order meet aspir peopl world peace, security, democraci development, embodi principl purpos charter unit nations.",1
2,"build scientific, industri clinic experi doctor russia promptli develop rang test system medicin detect treat coronavirus, well regist world’ first vaccine, “sputnik-v.”",1
2,"burkina faso thank un secretary-gener global call solidarity, launch 31 march 2020. call enabl establish global framework aim promot integr flexibl response, order make best use un system’ global footprint.",1
1,"chair g7+ group countri bring togeth countri affect conflict fragility, sierra leon remain commit foster peaceful, just, inclus societies. among local action sierra leon taken foster goal ramp fight corrupt prepar establish perman commiss peac nation cohesion. follow pledg made 74th session august body, expung 55-year old law criminalis sediti libel. work close journalists, civil society, women’ groups, stakehold group nurtur strengthen democracy.",1
2,"romania pay particular attent youth, especi far educ profession train concerned. such, doubl number scholarship offer foreign citizen 2020-2021 academ year, particular attent africa. believ ensur continu youth training, contribut materi “build back better” principle.",1
2,"take opportun convey condol express solidar member state famili lost love one due covid-19 global pandemic. mourn loss hundr thousand person worldwide, covid-19, greatli concern alarm rate diseas continu affect million across globe.",1
0,"firm action also need order tackl climat environment emergencies. rise sea level catastroph weather events, longer afford ignor risk climat change. duti futur gener turn glasgow cop26 success achiev goal pari agreement.",1
1,"field develop assist develop countri least develop countries, support countri affect neg impact climat change, qatar fulfil pledg provid contribut $100 million support least develop countri small island develop state deal climat change.",1
2,"sinc earli day covid-19 outbreak uzbekistan, focus effort resourc contain danger diseas and, importantly, save people’ lives.",1
2,"awar serious complex problem relat neighbor commit resolv exclus dialogue, take consider interest interest parties.",1
0,plan implement project aim strengthen africa’ capac third turkey-african union partnership summit intend hold turkey next year.,1
1,"finally, could fail express appreci mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, competence, selflessness, zeal led organization.",1
0,"situat escal amidst pandemic, threaten life health peopl risk epidem outbreak consider risen. circumst urg world commun pay close attent problem aral sea aral sea region.",1
1,"unit kingdom also insist unjustifi excess militari presenc islands, bring tension region character peac intern cooperation.",1
1,"well awar fact secur issu well problem discuss jubile un gener assembl call consolid effort basi valu unit us, share memori lesson history, spirit allianc guid anti-hitl coalit particip found possibl rais differ ideolog prefer sake victori peac nation earth.",1
0,"careful, event year continu fractur multilater may dilut global develop aspirations. triumphantli sign five year ago 2030 agenda 17 sustain develop goals. ever must return collect commit redoubl implement efforts. vanuatu alreadi contextu global goal nation aspirations, articul vanuatu 2030 — people’ plan. year sought ensur nation recoveri strategi respond immedi social, econom environment need associ covd-19 cyclon harold, empow us build back better continu advanc develop aspirations. must keep move forward revert back before. increas frequenc extrem weather event disast mean recoveri becom new normal.",1
1,covid-19 initi appear healthcar crisi gradual turn justifi global socio-econom financi crisis. state affair current situat certainli requir activ coordin actions.,1
2,"continu support world health organisation’   effort formul respons covid-19 facilit vaccin development. postpandemic, may necessari review process improv further, now, focu immedi prioriti overcom pandemic.",1
2,"also express concern regard vulner conflict area coronaviru pandemic, area least prepar address danger.",1
2,"unit kingdom also insist unjustifi excess militari presenc islands, bring tension region character peac intern cooperation.",1
1,"concern howev lack progress reform secur council. samoa remain convinc expand secur council mirror present day realiti essenti multilater council’ integr credibility. increas perman non-perman categori part parcel reform package, time move text base negotiations.",1
0,"romania pay particular attent youth, especi far educ profession train concerned. such, doubl number scholarship offer foreign citizen 2020-2021 academ year, particular attent africa. believ ensur continu youth training, contribut materi “build back better” principle.",1
0,"social distancing, mask use sanit measures, deni viru opportun move amongst us.",1
2,"chair g7+ group countri bring togeth countri affect conflict fragility, sierra leon remain commit foster peaceful, just, inclus societies. among local action sierra leon taken foster goal ramp fight corrupt prepar establish perman commiss peac nation cohesion. follow pledg made 74th session august body, expung 55-year old law criminalis sediti libel. work close journalists, civil society, women’ groups, stakehold group nurtur strengthen democracy.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem done us world war ii gener us — immens human cost phenomenon global impact then, now, forc pay attent take unpreced action.",1
1,remain hope agreement inject new dynam relat kosova serbia.,1
0,"terror remain one promin challeng face world pose real threat intern peac security, imped achiev sustain develop peoples. state qatar spare effort activ particip intern region effort address phenomenon tackl roots, especi support educ million children, youth women creat job opportun young men.",1
1,"take opportun underlin prais construct import role administr presid unit state america donald trump play reach agreement, import signal commit find last sustain solut import issue.",1
1,"global crise like covid-19 pandem provid opportun renew challeng overcome. seen devast health econom impact viru feel live pain results. nation, matter well resourced, immune. yet, despit common suffer pain, fear covid-19 has, continu to, exacerb alreadi exist gulf developed, develop fragil state make un family. someth must avoid cost tackl today’ major global challenges, includ insecurity, climat change, poverti increas inequality, driver much divis discont across world, depend effect cooper multilater action bring sustain develop goal fruition.",1
1,"million peopl around world lost job livelihood pandemic. social dialogu workplac help mitig impact pandem shape solutions. need sustain transit global labour market, issu work close presid south africa, cyril ramaphosa, co-edit ilo report futur work. sweden invit countri join global deal partnership decent work inclus growth.",1
0,bold drastic measur commonli undertaken within intern law avoid doubl standard polici recogn yet anoth import factor tackl challenges.,1
1,"economic, trade, financi embargo impos cuba mani year ago continu be, view, anoth caus major concern. reason, sao tome & princip reiter call sanction lift order allow cuba face challeng econom social develop without constraint impos unfair sanction take better advantag opportun trade relat equal foot member state organization.",1
2,"armenia, attack azerbaijani territori july, prove biggest obstacl last peac stabil south caucasus.",1
0,"reiter call relev countri facilit effort brother sudan remov name sudan list state sponsor terrorism, difficulti hardship face taken toll them. context, qatar stood brother provid support counter flood sever inflict seriou damag facil peopl well, call upon intern commun provid kind necessari support counter natur disasters.",1
1, v 	build resili futur crisi,1
0,"peace, secur develop central asia directli depend settlement situat afghanistan. posit turkmenistan principl remain unchanged. altern negoti process. previou experi shown coerciv approach prospect fail lead agreement reconciliation. countri afghanistan’ neutral immedi neighbor state readi provid necessari polit organiz condit territori establish peac dialogu govern afghanistan parti interest polit settlement situat afghanistan.",1
2,"think alarm situat amazon indigen peoples. see environment crisi insepar link social crisis, care environ call integr approach combat poverti exclusion.",1
2,"origin “throwaway culture” gross lack respect human dignity, promot ideolog reduct understand human person, denial univers fundament human rights, crave absolut power control widespread today’ society. let us name is: attack human itself.",1
0,"second, bifurc shrink global pool knowledg reduc opportun share benefit research innovation. countri open share scientif knowledg abl produc test kit quickli pandem earli phase. prime minist said global vaccin summit last june, need vaccin multilateralism. need greater intern cooper ensur equit univers access covid-19 vaccin",1
0,"unit nation play pivot outstand role overse polit transit process yemen, ongo sinc 2011. accord gulf initi implement mechanism, start transit period. nation govern form presidenti elect took place. nation dialogu confer held particip strata yemeni society. new yemeni constitut draft accord outcom dialogue. suppos subject referendum yemeni peopl adopt allow elect held line new constitution. however, houthi coup d’etat disrupt transit process led war peopl yemen.",1
2,"say revitalis exist set-up has, despit lesson past outbreak viruses, fail respond adequ covid-19 devast consequences.",1
0,"75 year foundation, unit nation face difficult challeng history. must stop pandem succeed work together, collect effort requir renew stronger multilater cooperation.",1
0,"violat iraq’ sovereignty, use refuge bargain chip europe, laid claim forc energi resourc mediterranean. current turkish regim becom rogu outlaw regim intern law. polici actions, threaten secur stabil whole region, must stopped.",1
0,"sever short- medium-term challeng need overcome. first, need defeat covid-19 together. need understand none us, nation larg small, safe us safe together. need global cooperation, less. ensur medic suppli scientif collabor continu flow across borders, need intensifi exchang inform infect protocols, hope resum semblanc “normal” life, includ resumpt intern travel, safely.",1
0,"effect climat change, includ increasingli frequent sever weather phenomena, flood droughts, diminish fresh water resources, desertification, land degrad sea-level rise, threaten entir populations, depriv livelihoods.",1
0,"would like start intervent congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir elect presid gener assembly, would also like congratul secretari general, antonio guterres, secretariat unit nations. celebr 75th anniversari unit nation great assembl peopl world, creat primari object construct multilater way implement system valu code conduct base cooperation, undoubtedli rememb year sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook pillar societies.",1
1,"never human histori mani opportun abl want do, honest creat want create. network allow us instantli connect best mind anywher world. network enabl us connect peopl interests, aspir vision world. speak individual’ perspective. imagin humankind do.",1
1,"take consider ongo process pandem impact, govern tajikistan along prevent spread infecti diseas exert effort undertak necessari measur aim ensur consist sustain oper socioeconom sector country.",1
0,owe support un member state abl reviv strengthen global water agenda past decades.,1
1,"first teacher everi child mother father, family, univers declar human right describ “natur fundament group unit society”. often, famili victim form ideolog coloni weaken end produc mani members, especi vulnerable, young elderly, feel orphan lack roots. breakdown famili reflect social fragment hinder effort confront common enemies. time reassess recommit achiev goals.",1
0,"time, un instrument bring world togeth defend human rights, democraci democrat institutions, uphold rule law, good governance, sustain peac secur advanc path toward realiz 17 sustain develop goals.",1
2,"base firm belief resolv disput peac means, grace god thank him, state qatar’ mediat effort culmin sign peac agreement unit state taliban movement, doha, 29 february, 2020, abl make exchang prison govern afghanistan taliban movement success discuss held doha last month.",1
0,"programme, incorpor sdgs, priorit health pharmaceut sovereignty, resili popul macroeconom financi stability.",1
0,"country, highli depend tourism, closur borders, cessat cruis tourism limit aviation, effect devast economi overnight, result seriou loss revenues, also sudden signific loss jobs.",1
1,connect would like call unit nation intern region organ support tajikistan expedit glacier central asia.,1
0,"state society, demonstr commitment, compass courag take hard decis start direct peac talk taliban. won’t enough. sustain afghanistan, must get root terror problem blight region address global phenomenon, threat, is.",1
1,"yes, today speak first new danger face human twenty-first century. short time, covid-19 becom real perhap threaten challeng time. global challeng recogn borders, races, nationalities, detriment effect sphere civiliz development. perhap whole world felt vulner common threat sever first time mani decades. hope believ uniti solidar overcom defeat allow mankind becom renewed, wiser, respons farsight battle. even though current period difficult controversi give us chanc chang better sake entir planet’ destiny. highest polit moral duti miss chance, show dignity, solidar true humanism.",1
1,current crisi threaten slow even revers progress new sustain develop goals.,1
1,"along pandemic, draw attent challeng misinform disinform pandemic. spread “infodemic” put health risk, increas risk conflicts, violence, human right violat mass atrocities. covid-19 crisi demonstr crucial need access free, reliable, trustworthy, factual, clear science-bas information. states, region organizations, un system stakehold media workers, social media platform ngo clear role respons help peopl deal “infodemic’. countri attach great import fight disinformation. reason, organ 2019, san marino, high-level confer danger disinformation. reason, join year cross-region statement “infodemic” context covid-19 support unit nation commun respons initi “verified” campaign announc un secretari gener april.",1
2,"“i would like acknowledg leadership excel mr. matamela cyril ramaphosa, presid republ south africa chairperson african union, well african union commission. abl put continent strategi place respond pandem take time measur aim pool medic suppli member states, safeguard african economi research vaccin covid-19, inter alia.",1
0,"linger palestinian caus without solution, israel’ continu settlement creation pretext ground without deter pose biggest question mark credibl intern commun institutions.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem continu disrupt destroy live livelihood also pose substant risk intern peac security. especi countri conflict emerg conflict, experienc humanitarian crises, weak fragil economi peacebuild post-war state-build could undermin reversed.",1
1,faith human solidar justic drive seneg role chair committe exercis inalien right palestinian people.,1
2,"fear insecur seiz people, health system weaken socio-econom fabric total shaken, caus loss million jobs. march 21, first posit case confirm country. first state emerg decreed, citizen alreadi took action.",1
0,"shall focu today challeng pose specif digit revolut climat change. must har new digit technolog benefit societi whilst mitig possibl neg impact. covid-19 acceler deploy artifici intelligence, robotics, digit payments, e-govern services, remot work.",1
1,"yet, success common effort somalia mean unscathed. accord offici statistics, 3,000 somali infect viru around 100 tragic lost live result. mani diagnos live pain suffer covid-19 other still remain vulner given weak somalia’ overstretch health system infrastructure.",1
2,"tajikistan 93 per cent territori cover mountains, bear loss equal hundr million dollar annual result water-rel disasters.",1
2,"compact requir design new, enhanc exist financi instrument guid sid economi current crisis, creat respons system maintain gains, reinforc resili climat chang achiev sustain development.",1
0,"govern also made necessari commit educ levels, educ essenti full actual human be ensur citizen equal opportunities.",1
2,"activ member unit nations, made contribut reinforc awar sustain develop goals. experi point need state strong institut capabl face challeng threat modern times. convinc intern conflict must resolv negoti dialogue. tool allow promot peac necessari humankind. concern recent increas tension maritim disput south china sea. proudli say first countri use compulsori concili mechanism, advoc unit nation convent law sea. call parti involv resolv differ dialogu negoti order achiev peac solution.",1
0,"“concern issu climat change, chad — sahelian countri subject harm effect existenti threat, strongli affect sector make foundat economi — remain commit implement pari agreement climat change.",1
0,"year, due low precipit winter seen signific declin water stock region’ rivers, turn led low-wat season irrig caus sever drought.",1
1,interfer intern affair sanction restrict measur belaru opposit effect harm absolut everyone. alreadi experienc past.,1
2,"order flatten curv pandem prevent global econom crisis, must react collectively, spirit uniti solidarity.",1
1,"shall focu today challeng pose specif digit revolut climat change. must har new digit technolog benefit societi whilst mitig possibl neg impact. covid-19 acceler deploy artifici intelligence, robotics, digit payments, e-govern services, remot work.",1
1,unit nation remain best hope provid polit necessari commit avoid existenti threat mani small state un family.,1
2,"“at intern level, welcom ceasefir libya, declar simultan presid presid council govern nation accord speaker hous representatives. chad reiter call secur council shoulder respons end extern interference. urg libyan stakehold respect ceasefir resolut engag process inclus negoti lead true nation reconciliation.",1
2,"uniti human needs, requir function multilater system respect democrat principl sovereignty, particip consent  reject bulli doctrin exclusion, imposit abus econom sanctions.",1
2,"outset, let also, behalf govern peopl sierra leone, express heartfelt deep condol member state unit nation loss live due covid-19 pandemics. salut selfless frontlin respond global emergency.",1
0,"concern howev lack progress reform secur council. samoa remain convinc expand secur council mirror present day realiti essenti multilater council’ integr credibility. increas perman non-perman categori part parcel reform package, time move text base negotiations.",1
0,"trinidad tobago join famili nation 1962, year attain independence. small island develop state, continu embrac principl collect secur enshrin charter major safeguard small states, rule law, absenc militari econom power, sustain strength sovereignty. mark 75th anniversari unit nations, states, small large, reason proud achiev umbrella rever organisation, creation roadmap global sustain development, advanc develop intern law promot gender equality.",1
1,"world face period prolong turmoil. multilater system confront nationalism, xenophobia, reject free trade global econom integration, bifurc technolog suppli chains. threat new. covid-19 fact acceler intensifi preexist trends. protection unilater action ultim self defeating.",1
0,"would like take opportun call everi member gener assembl perman member secur council help us achiev end-stat sovereign, unit democrat afghanistan, peac region, capabl preserv expand gain last 19 years. democrat stabl prosper afghanistan exampl collect overcom turmoil uncertainti defin world today. thank you.hi excel antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nations.",1
1,"covid-19 brought solomon island closer partners. made new friends, latest “philippin red cross”, fantast work test look student manila. grate excel work red cross continu nationals.",1
0,"spirit solidar govern priorit sinc arriv pandem poverty, one safe, everyon safe.",1
0,"order address covid-19 pandemic, seneg launch econom social resili programm fund amount 1,000 billion cfa francs, $1.6 billion.",1
2,pandem taught us urgent lesson: longer ignor drivers.,1
0,"build back better possibl right architectur place. us small island develop state especially, biggest threat global — notabl climat chang manag oceans. therefor solut must global, mean imper necessari intern architectur place. resourc address complex challeng becom scarcer, vulner countri ldc sid especi face daunt future. put simply, need fulli functional, work unit nations. need un agenc work solid partnership member states, multilater organizations. know problems, need find way fix these, creat even greater problem continu trend undermin multilater intern cooperation.",1
2,"along pandemic, draw attent challeng misinform disinform pandemic. spread “infodemic” put health risk, increas risk conflicts, violence, human right violat mass atrocities. covid-19 crisi demonstr crucial need access free, reliable, trustworthy, factual, clear science-bas information. states, region organizations, un system stakehold media workers, social media platform ngo clear role respons help peopl deal “infodemic’. countri attach great import fight disinformation. reason, organ 2019, san marino, high-level confer danger disinformation. reason, join year cross-region statement “infodemic” context covid-19 support unit nation commun respons initi “verified” campaign announc un secretari gener april.",1
2,"well-known, ancient cultur rich spiritu heritag region global importance.",1
0,"accordingly, order contribut restor environ improv country’ environmental, social econom situation, novemb 2017 govern republ burundi launch ewe burundi urambay project significantli reduc effect deforestation.",1
1,"realist plan build strength country, health social protect system, educ model country’ high level public safety, histor uniqueness, cultur divers privileg natur environment. however, plan also identifies, one would expect, aspect need improv base belief sustain — understood transvers sens — main guid line polit action. reason, develop roadmap awar impact action taken moment effect endur way beyond present time. action line sustain develop goals, govern institut must main catalyst chang promot unit nations.",1
2,"regard climate, necessari recal planet, live live gener come, face crisi worsen day dramat rise climat sceptics. climat crisi put decad progress risk jeopard project undertaken bring inclus sustain development, while, time, clock continu click without wait us act.",1
2,"oper welcome, led brazilian ministri defense, receiv almost 400,000 venezuelan displac result deep polit econom crisi bred venezuelan dictatorship.",1
1,current pandem exacerb exist discrimin inequ risk sexual gender-bas violence. disproportion impact women’ girls’ access essenti health services. robust fund sexual reproduct health right must priority.,1
0,"fight plastic pollution, worrisom tonga note alarm 12 million tonn plastic wast leak ocean annually. place great interest address threat begin process ban single-us plastics. nation region problem, also global problem, requir global solution.",1
1,"“uganda applaud secretary-gener time appeal global ceasefir covid-19 pandemic. doubt pandem global impact aspect lives, social, econom political, almost countri across globe. arm conflict war continued, pandem made worsen situat even dire. africa’ continent subregion organ continu play critic role conflict prevent crisi continent. welcom direct partnership engag unit nation african union peac secur matters, acceler recent years. experi shown wherev intern community, unit nation particular, support region efforts, successful. encourag strengthen partnership.",1
0,pandem emphas interconnect collect vulnerability. imper intern commun come togeth ralli behind vision charter advanc digniti human be larger freedom.,1
2,"cannot fail acknowledg devast effect covid-19 crisi children, includ unaccompani young migrant refugees. violenc children, includ horribl scourg child abus pornography, also dramat increased.",1
2,"“the leader g20 favour multilater organ make loan favour interest rate allevi debt countri highli indebted, defer forgiv it. occur, payment imposs fiscal space compromised. except measur requir confront unpreced crisis. progress without intern cooper solidarity.”",1
2,"violat iraq’ sovereignty, use refuge bargain chip europe, laid claim forc energi resourc mediterranean. current turkish regim becom rogu outlaw regim intern law. polici actions, threaten secur stabil whole region, must stopped.",1
2,"region suffer mani decad attempt forc extrem chao seek impos malign view polici order hijack countries’ present future, pay heed aspir peopl region development, prosperity, peace. kingdom, chose path futur vision 2030 aspir creat robust economi commun interact surround contribut activ progress civil humankind.",1
1,"continu confront problem world face  climat change, deterior health planet coronaviru  must rememb address collect action everi one us. old african proverb say ‘if wish go fast, go alone. wish go far, go together’. time us act collect address need everyon includ vulner among us! togeth togeth go far.",1
0,"favor resolv issu iran’ nuclear program take account intern law, diplomaci dialogue.",1
1,covid-19 pandem strongli confirm need necess exist strengthen role unit nations. relev forum must never questioned.,1
2,call suppli medic equip drug vaccin develop effort made issu competition.,1
1,"beliz tourism dependent, export orient country. invariably, therefore, travel tourism industri shutdown market agro product depressed, economi flounders. date 73 per cent worker tourism sector, labour intens sector economy, lost jobs. seemli simultaneously, countri beset health crisi econom crisis. order deal health crisis, govern establish bipartisan nation oversight committe  noc  broad supervisori respons belize’ covid-19 respons recoveri initiatives, includ initi mitig impact covid-19 pandem societi economy.",1
0,"botswana acceler access inclusive, equit qualiti educ through, amongst interventions, implement educ train sector strateg plan. etssp, it’ commonli known, aim transform learn ensur access, retention, promot life-long learn skill development.",1
1,"take opportun convey condol express solidar member state famili lost love one due covid-19 global pandemic. mourn loss hundr thousand person worldwide, covid-19, greatli concern alarm rate diseas continu affect million across globe.",1
1,"furthermore, royal thai govern also introduc econom respons packag reliev financi burden peopl busi operators, whether low-incom groups, women entrepreneurs, farmers, vulner group ensur guarante equal access govern assistance. effort focus boost financi liquid entrepreneur sustain businesses. regard, set “centr econom situat administration”  cesa  act main mechan formul comprehens polici econom social rehabilit synerg effort public privat sectors.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem also take toll human rights, deepen pre exist inequ enhanc vulnerabilities. must ensur comprehens consist approach human right core effort econom recovery.",1
0,"addition, must work togeth ensur avail access essenti health-car services, particular qualiti primari care, key achiev 2030 agenda sustain development, especi sustain develop goal 3.",1
0,"“in regard, fit recal debt alreadi major handicap pandem accentuated. african develop bank noted, nearli 50 million addit peopl could risk fall extrem poverti africa 2020. moreover, africa’ loss result pandem reach sever hundr billion dollar period 2020 2021. mani countri could forc borrow, aggrav debt burden.",1
2,"nation, howev wealthy, surviv market dwindl sourc suppli decline.",1
1,"fight climat chang continu one prioriti andorra, countri special awar natur environment. year signific year climat action plan new scenario understanding, mark ratif new object reduc greenhous ga emissions, within framework climat chang confer cop26 held unit kingdom. andorra approv pari agreement 2015 without doubt hesitation, pass law energi transit fight climat chang reflect contribut pari agreement. indeed, one first countri establish plan reduc emiss experi work toward becom sustain countri sinc awar must preserv resourc natur environ futur generations. reason, spare effort fight climat change.",1
0,"narrow nationalist polici undermin intern cooper make matter worse, better.",1
0,"decad action sdgs, must also work togeth protect planet ecosystems. need resort ration use planetari resourc pursu econom growth, full respect biodiversity. biodivers summit offer uniqu opportun show ambit acceler action biodivers sustain development.",1
1,"social protect health system cardin strengthen mitig neg effect pandem  target support provid population, sector economi businesses.",1
2,"membership kosova intern organizations, unit nation included, would benefit kosova, also whole intern community.",1
0,covid-19 pandem quickli becom truli global threat. far over. alreadi learn lesson: cannot go back busi usual.,1
0,connect would like call unit nation intern region organ support tajikistan expedit glacier central asia.,1
2,today celebr first time anniversari would like take opportun urg join us — done alreadi — aim rais awar import reduc food loss wast contribut action sustain development.,1
1,"russia’ illeg annex crimea sevastopol aggress eastern ukrain constitut seriou breach intern law, challeng global secur caus human suffering. european union clear need implement minsk agreements. sweden european union condemn strongest possibl term poison russian opposit leader alexei navalny. russian govern must investig assassin attempt thoroughli transparently. respons must brought justice.",1
0,"scale current pandem distress consequ — loss life impact health mani peopl — focu attent must seek solut peoples, particular vulner risk affect pandem result impact health, well way mean life.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem complic situat transit government, inherit crippl economi weak devast servic sectors, particularli health sector, neglect decades.",1
1,75th anniversari un foundat becom impetu transform organ dynam effici body.,1
1,disrespect natur caus climat chang neg impact humankind. destruct ecosystem biodivers link new diseas covid-19 illustration.,1
2,"social distancing, mask use sanit measures, deni viru opportun move amongst us.",1
2,"afghanistan, experi adapt digit revolut wield sourc econom opportun overwhelmingli young population, well way strengthen system govern rule law. look far ahead knowledg tri replic 19th 20th centuri model now, becom irrelev soon stabil them.",1
2,invest hospit medic suppli ensur viru overwhelm health system.,1
0,"sudan continu activ contribut support stabil polit secur situat countri african continent, especi countri region, activ membership region organ african union, igad, intern confer great lake region, sahel sahara. occasion, would like express appreci great posit role african union play confront coronaviru pandem africa.",1
0,"unit nations, within current world context, portray realiti total differ one basi establishment, seek reflect within intern structur characterist geopolit realiti nowaday order render organ abl safeguard balanc global interests.",1
2,slovenia share awar biodivers loss urgent global challenge.,1
0,put right clean drink water constitution. recogn preserv water resourc key element protect biodiversity.,1
0,bring current polit crisi mali relat insurg sahel grave concern respond urgent provid unambigu support ongo effort initi econom commun west african state  ecowa .,1
1,report also highlight challeng face term health sector particularli rate non-communic diseas cases. seven ten death solomon island caus non-communic diseases. remain largest singl caus death country.,1
0,"sign memoranda understand fortescu metal group chang afghanistan lead green industry, energi intend produc 20,000 megawatt hydro use produc zero emiss steel product estim $1 trillion miner resources.",1
2,"sudan current experienc except circumst due impact unpreced torrenti rain floods, exacerb challeng alreadi face. flood nile led sever loss human life properti throughout area adjac it. great damag also caus rain flood vast areas, includ partial total collaps ten thousand homes. would like, regard, pay tribut friendli brotherli countri demonstr solidar provid gener support respons catastrophe.",1
2,"global challeng crise tendenc either pull us togeth push us apart  true form, covid-19 crisi creat unpreced bond among countries. crisi taught remind us belong together, irrespect location, distanc time planet. time histori reflect focu must candid transform deepli explor lesson learnt therefore, rethink gener shape futur want. therefore, opportun time ask big questions, make great decis commit act solidarity.",1
1,"finally, imper ensur everi countri get timely, fair equit access covid-19 vaccines, mean work cooper competitively. un must especi ensur vulner countri world get access. medic break pray for, must unit effort mitig drastic impact crisi people.",1
2,"addition, avail opportun want invit friend particip establish intern crimea platform concert action protect right crimean de occupi peninsula.",1
2,"careful, event year continu fractur multilater may dilut global develop aspirations. triumphantli sign five year ago 2030 agenda 17 sustain develop goals. ever must return collect commit redoubl implement efforts. vanuatu alreadi contextu global goal nation aspirations, articul vanuatu 2030 — people’ plan. year sought ensur nation recoveri strategi respond immedi social, econom environment need associ covd-19 cyclon harold, empow us build back better continu advanc develop aspirations. must keep move forward revert back before. increas frequenc extrem weather event disast mean recoveri becom new normal.",1
1,"general, free world trade barriers, bans, restrict illegitim sanction would great help revit global growth reduc unemployment. accord experts, total partial reduct global employ second quarter year equal loss 400 million jobs, utmost prevent unemploy grow long-term ensur peopl return work support famili instead find imprison poverti prospect life.",1
1,"order share experi road travel implement sdgs, successes, current emerg challeng lesson learned, burundi submit voluntari nation review mechan 2020. remain convinc that, order sdgs, adopt 2015 becom reality, requir addit commitment, initiative, effort and, all, resources.",1
1,"samoa remain covid-free, spare seriou life chang impact nation, people, still recov devast decemb 2019 measl outbreak claim 80 young lives. experi test resolv nation, also strengthen uniti resilience. importantly, reaffirm trust invest genuin partnerships.",1
1,"may speak plainly, insuffici today. necessari detail work save aral sea concret practic assist support provid peopl live there. thus, strongli believ that, subject aral sea need systemat comprehens approach well relev legal document issu set separ direct un activities. regard, turkmenistan put forward initi creat special program aral sea basin.",1
1,"situat escal amidst pandemic, threaten life health peopl risk epidem outbreak consider risen. circumst urg world commun pay close attent problem aral sea aral sea region.",1
0,"pacif sids, futur alreadi uncertain compromis world continu current trajectori emiss caus 3 degre global warming. would pose existenti threat islands. pandem introduc temporari lockdown  sever cyclon continu rampage, coastlin whittl away, sea level rise higher, ocean yield gnaw acidification. border closur observed, climat chang know restrict respect boundaries.",1
1,"favor resolv issu iran’ nuclear program take account intern law, diplomaci dialogue.",1
1,"also experienc whole new challeng coronaviru pandemic. diseas directli affect million peopl claim import thing: live hundr thousand people. quarantines, border closures, numer seriou troubl citizen almost state constitut present-day realia. especi difficult elderli peopl who, due necessari restrictions, abl hug love ones, children grandchildren week even months.",1
2,"second, bifurc shrink global pool knowledg reduc opportun share benefit research innovation. countri open share scientif knowledg abl produc test kit quickli pandem earli phase. prime minist said global vaccin summit last june, need vaccin multilateralism. need greater intern cooper ensur equit univers access covid-19 vaccin",1
1,"requir involv everybody, public authorities, civil societi privat initiative, scienc knowledge, inspir sustain develop goal principl human right lie core actions.",1
1,"deep concern disregard intern law wit lately. view current situat necessari consolid effort aim strengthen role intern law, multilater legal instrument global secur system, strict complianc state gener accept norm deriv un charter. way could sustain stabil predict global polit mitig risk conflicts.",1
2,"kingdom’ hand extend iran peac posit open attitud past decades, avail. kingdom receiv sever iran’ presid senior officials, among kingdom’ effort seek way build relat base good neighborli mutual respect. kingdom welcom intern effort deal iran’ nuclear program, time again, entir world wit iranian regim exploit effort order intensifi expansionist activities, creat terrorist networks, use terrorism, process squander resourc wealth iranian peopl purpos expansionist project produc noth chaos, extremism, sectarianism.",1
0,commenc cooper intern organ region partner institut elabor two strategi paper new period clear evid success achiev direction.,1
1,"must cours keep distanc pandemic, must also close rank joint struggl cooper challeng threaten intern community.",1
2,"effect climat chang lead inter alia food insecurity, large- scale displacement, social tensions, exacerbating, prolong contribut risk futur conflicts. although greenhous ga emiss project drop 6 per cent 2020, air qualiti improv result travel ban econom slowdown result pandemic, global commun far track meet either 1.5 2°c target call pari agreement. decad 2010 2019 warmest decad ever. govern privat sector must acceler transit climat relationship environ make transform chang economies.",1
1,"overcom pandem achiev goal 2030 agenda requir economic, industri social polici aim bring structur chang economies.",1
1,"nuclear deterrence, particular, creat etho fear base threat mutual annihil  way, end poison relationship peopl obstruct dialogue. import support princip intern legal instrument nuclear disarmament, nonprolifer prohibition. holi see trust forthcom review confer parti treati non-prolifer nuclear weapon  npt  result concret action accord joint intent “to achiev earliest possibl date cessat nuclear arm race undertak effect measur direct nuclear disarmament”.",1
1,"presently, one activ laboratori confirm case covid-19 infection, despit re-open border june 1st, daili commerci flight north america europe, attempt earn revenu vital tourism sector protect live livelihoods.",1
1,"pandem reveal us fragil recreat need build bridg people, nation regions.",1
2,also use transform power digit prepar econom prescript surviv crisis.,1
2,"no, enough. plan must abandon all. annex would serious undermin viabil last solut close door futur negotiations.",1
1,"third, rebuild, must continu import work increas resili meet challeng pose digit revolution, cybersecur threats, climat change, transboundari pollution.",1
1,"why, start pandemic, argentina focus primarili protect live care vulnerable, implement seri emerg measur prevent collaps health system mitig immedi impact pandemic.",1
1,"sinc join un 1955 austria proud honour contribut areas. whether 60 year peacekeeping, member — current presid — human right council. austria continu part readi assum responsibilities. particular reason, candid un secur council 2027-2028 hope support.",1
1,"theme year’ gener debat apt timely. need reaffirm commit multilater face challeng covid 19 pandemic, shape “the futur want, unit nation need”.",1
1,express hope talk serv bring peac stabil long-suff land afghanistan.,1
1,"think key condit polit stabilization, social econom recoveri afghanistan, success integr global economi implement larg infrastructur project afghanistan’ involv primarili vital sector energy, transport communications.",1
0,"current situat world becom complicated, volatil turbul background grow geopolitical, geo-econom competit extens modern threat challenges, particularli spread coronaviru disease.",1
2,"stated, covid-19 detriment botswana’ economy. suspens intern travel global econom meltdown dealt heavi blow two mainstay economi  tourism diamond mining. repeat lockdown covid-19 protocol also significantli reduc econom activity.",1
1,global crisi caus covid-19 also highlight sever gender inequality.,1
0,"let conclude, mr. president, reiter sierra leone’ call establish resili healthcar infrastructur servic curtail protect peopl risk covid-19. way intern commun reestablish confid stabil financi market creat right environ support global busi trade, investment, job creation. must put back track progress toward achiev sustain develop goals.",1
1,"regard health care, govern open dedic centr lome country’ econom regions, train personnel suppli critic laboratory, medic protect equipment. scientif committe develop treatment plan. taken variou social measur benefit population, particularli vulner sectors, order mitig impact pandem — reduc cost water electricity, remov tax basic needs, provid food distribut subsid disadvantag citizen novissi cash transfer programme, and, lastly, support businesses. would therefor like take opportun express sincer thank variou partner assist togo fight pandemic.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem come chang realiti prioriti humanity, consequ human life. pandem made evid inequ world exacerb them. unfortunately, conting measur face pandem increas social econom gap within countries. intern community, whole, must provid global coordin respons support nation need, help creat condit stronger economi inclus societies.",1
0,"includ reconsid role econom financi institutions, like bretton-woods, must respond rapidli grow inequ super-rich perman poor. econom model encourag subsidiarity, support econom develop local level invest educ infrastructur benefit local communities, lay foundat econom success also renew larger commun nation. would renew appeal",1
0,disarma vital import ensur global peac security.,1
2,"manifest “perfect storm” undoubtedli derail limit progress posit make implement 2030 agenda, jeopardis abil meet sustain develop goal within agre timeframe. all, exact horrif toll million famili worldwid alreadi taken close million lives.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem also take toll human rights, deepen pre exist inequ enhanc vulnerabilities. must ensur comprehens consist approach human right core effort econom recovery.",1
1,"syria, sustain peac achiev polit solut line resolut 2254  2015 . sweden recent pledg 96 million dollar crisi respons brussel 4 conference.",1
0,"social econom impact pandem felt mani year come. recov long costli process, especi vulnerable. global solidarity, effect intern cooper polit commit critic sustain respons recov build back better.",1
0,"sudan current experienc except circumst due impact unpreced torrenti rain floods, exacerb challeng alreadi face. flood nile led sever loss human life properti throughout area adjac it. great damag also caus rain flood vast areas, includ partial total collaps ten thousand homes. would like, regard, pay tribut friendli brotherli countri demonstr solidar provid gener support respons catastrophe.",1
0,"situat continu without appropri respons intern community, mani countries, like mine, unabl pay exist debt qualifi new borrowings.",1
2,"terror violent extrem continu repres one seriou threat nation peopl intern peac security. scourg worsen exploit ongo crise activ organ crime certain countri regions. threat target state themselves, social cohes effort develop democracy.",1
2,"coronaviru pandem certainli mark year world, brought us challeng could even imagin that. taking, already, hundr hundr thousand lives, pandem sown misfortun throughout world  aggriev numer families, whose pain truli sympath with.",1
2,"2020 mark “year delivery” power sustain develop kingdom attain 50 per cent renew energi penetration, project delay caus global pandemic, sudden halt market suppli chains, led major disrupt tonga’ ndc achiev target.",1
2,"pandem also pinpoint seri ethical, technolog humanitarian matters. instance, advanc digit technolog help quickli reorgan education, trade services, well set distant learn onlin cours peopl differ ages. artifici intellig assist doctor make accur time diagnos find best treatment.",1
0,"2020 mark “year delivery” power sustain develop kingdom attain 50 per cent renew energi penetration, project delay caus global pandemic, sudden halt market suppli chains, led major disrupt tonga’ ndc achiev target.",1
0,"action includ build capac small island develop state cope recov extern shock pandem like covid-19, form disasters, impact climat change.",1
1,bring current polit crisi mali relat insurg sahel grave concern respond urgent provid unambigu support ongo effort initi econom commun west african state  ecowa .,1
2,"end, polit process initi auspic unit nations, also syrian-own syrian-led, brought success conclusion.",1
2,"that, unilater action provision institut self-govern pristina declar independ so-cal kosovo, un sc resolut 1244  1999  violat stabil republ serbia, also entir region, serious endangered. let remind republ serbia fulli commit find compromis solut issu kosovo metohija. polit respons one  everyth protect interest people, also region peac stability.",1
1,"therefore, take privileg opportun reaffirm support renew multilater cooper behalf peopl serve, multilateralism, solidarity, effect combat effect poverti mainten intern peac security, indispens condit inclus sustain development.",1
1,"un made notabl achiev peac secur agenda, much work still need done. covid-19 contribut increas volatil instabl situations. grow inequality, poverty, arm conflicts, terror insecur still exist. peopl flee home search refug safeti becom new normal. threat use nuclear weapon still present.",1
0,"despit obviou evidence, joint efforts, collabor cooper amongst nation exchang among special scientif institut manag face problem previous fulli unknown, oblig us seek prompt respons order allevi effect disease.",1
0,"light high mortal level devast effect disease, high rate spread, must continu use mechan multilater offer us term intern solidarity, order intensifi combat disease, deter loss human lives, relaunch econom develop process countries.",1
0,"pandem place enorm pressur abil democrat institut function seriou consequ human rights. far mani leader govern use pretext attempt silenc opposition, civil societi human right defenders.",1
2,close profession coordin joint effort medic scientif commun around world necessari ever fast victori pandemic.,1
2,"podium call intensif global effort confront great challeng face human area climat change, poverty, organ crime, spread epidemics, challeng requir strengthen cooper work bright futur gener come may live stability, peace, security.",1
0,"75 year exist unit nations, plenti reason proud of. result global cooper framework un, manag prevent major militari conflagr reduc human suffering.",1
0,"attack — know — limit unilater coerciv measures. may 3rd, venezuela face attempt maritim incurs group mercenari terrorists, financ govern unit state train colombian territory, total absolut support u.s. colombian governments. group terrorist confront real time civic-militari polic union, perpetr attack, arm incurs venezuela, neutral captured, order judici institut due process.",1
0,"tunisia welcom ceasefir agreement sisterli libya underscor firm commit utmost assist libyan brother reach polit settlement inclus libyan dialogue, unit nation auspices. also call intern commun uphold respons establish secur find sustain comprehens solut variou disput crise region world.",1
1,"militari increas substanti size. spent $2.5 trillion last 4 year military. power militari anywher world, it’ even close.",1
1,"worthi note that, pre-covid-19 beliz contend econom declin caus ongo climat impact prolong drought impact primari sector output, along continu challeng caus sargassum inund marin spaces. septemb 4, hurrican nana struck us inflict anoth blow beleagu agricultur sector.",1
0,"continu support world health organisation’   effort formul respons covid-19 facilit vaccin development. postpandemic, may necessari review process improv further, now, focu immedi prioriti overcom pandemic.",1
1,"covid-19 significantli disrupt economi societi right across world. indeed, covid-19 reshap contour normal way things, place us “new normal”. therefore, must think outsid box, must also work outsid box. un member must work collabor togeth build back better countri economi that:",1
0,"global health problem paralyz momentum built recoveri world economy, econom crisi start 2008, alreadi send encourag signal recoveri special develop countries, case angola.",1
0,"seychelles’ protect nearli third eez ocean conservation, sustain climat action show countries’ respons health financi crisi caus covid19 need expens natur climate.",1
1,"need concurr revitalis gener assembl make genuin attempt reform secur council. intern governance, ever before, need representative, inclusive, open. need take account wide spectrum view acknowledg rich divers global community. un secretary-general’ abil take current futur challeng also depend polit financi commit member states. thu essenti continu support.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem time remind yet interconnectedness. world teeter brink uncertainties, need ‘nation unit one’. global solidar unifi respons best armour pandem socio-econom impact peopl facing. acknowledg ongo support un develop partner continu assist effort mitig impact pandemic. hope success develop vaccin equal even distribution. let us spread kind faster virus, hate, fear misinformation.",1
0,"world trade organ take proactiv role work restor world economi promot trade investment. recent obtain observ statu wto, turkmenistan activ use opportun open regard promot practic measur overcom quickli crisi phenomena world economy, transit posit dynamics.",1
1,"planet profoundli distress covid-19 pandem caus new coronavirus, incalcul consequ health social econom terms.",1
0,"therefor pivot moment transform crisi new opportun revit secur peac agenda, strong emphasi conflict prevent consolid peac processes. effort context peac oper must continu ever greater efficiency. also support greater integr principl respons protect action project focus prevention.",1
2,"also applaud adoption, assembl secur council, variou covid-19-focus resolut well initi secretary-gener antonio guterr aim promot global solidar cooper fight covid-19 address impact live livelihood long term.",1
2,"take consider ongo process pandem impact, govern tajikistan along prevent spread infecti diseas exert effort undertak necessari measur aim ensur consist sustain oper socioeconom sector country.",1
2,"disput differences, time misunderstand even distrust part colleagues, consist advanc constructive, unit initiatives, first arm control strengthen treati regim exist area. includ prohibit chemical, biolog toxin weapons.",1
2,"regard, wish share zambian govern launch multi sector youth empower programm support young entrepreneurs. multi-sector approach help ensur programm activ empow creat employ opportun youth mainstream across sectors.",1
2,"terrorist extremist organ find fertil ground sprout spread countri sectarian divis weak collaps state institutions. intend win battl terrorism, must waiver face countri sponsor terror sectarianism, must stand firmli face countri promot transnat extremist ideologies, reli fals polit slogan hide extremist, chaotic, destruct nature.",1
1,"regard, pleas note govern kingdom eswatini adopt numer pro-gend polici promot gender equality. femal represent posit power decision-mak compar favor within region.",1
2,faith human solidar justic drive seneg role chair committe exercis inalien right palestinian people.,1
2,"time, un instrument bring world togeth defend human rights, democraci democrat institutions, uphold rule law, good governance, sustain peac secur advanc path toward realiz 17 sustain develop goals.",1
1,"theme chosen 75th session render us time opportun again, turn eye toward strength multilater address multipl complex challeng world face today.",1
2,"syria, sustain peac achiev polit solut line resolut 2254  2015 . sweden recent pledg 96 million dollar crisi respons brussel 4 conference.",1
2,"though juri still reforms, deleg observ manag reform brought improv organisation’ crisi response. nonetheless believ remain done, encourag gener assembl princip organ step reform efforts.",1
0,"keep repeat statement terror constant danger stabil prosper across world one main threat intern peac security. unfortunately, some, many, act statements. relev secur council resolut yet find way un archiv implementation. joint action haven’t risen meet threat pose terrorism. contrary, invest in, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorist one region anoth one countri another, servic suspici agendas.",1
1,"today, year commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, andorra want add voic support organ repres essenc multilateralism, recent year manag preserv initi spirit evolv time. now, ever, must appeal recogn spirit vision un’ founders, abl overcom obstacl terribl war well differ opinion order preserv mankind.",1
2,"peoples’ expect high pressing, countri urg state assum respons meet commit take action, which, blunt, entail revit reform organization, particularli princip organs, includ secur council, order make repres better adapt demand time. firmli believ greater transparency, justice, equiti democracy, strict respect sovereign equal digniti states, particularli africa, enabl organ write new chapter existence. end, must give temptat turn inwardli nations. let us rather move forward togeth unit hope peac develop peopl remain firmli committed.mr. president,",1
1,"hope decad action deliv global goal help seek way sustain solut press global challenges, climat change, poverty, gender inequ financing.",1
2,digit economi essenti support transform sustain development. mani countri yet realis full econom potenti digit economi mani way ensur develop self-suffici peopl levels.,1
0,"would also like call intern commun ensur current pandem result fail fulli honour commit made multilater level. must avoid fall prey nation protectionism, would way harm intern relat intern trade disrupt suppli chain distribut medic suppli necessari emerg health crisis.",1
1,"mani situat need consid observ transvers manner  gender equality, attent children young people, particip protect elderly, non-discrimin peopl disabilities. realiti present, uncertainti futur experi past shown us need teach valu invest effort ensur school abl appli meet increasingli greater demands. success societi base growth human capit educ training.",1
0,"pandem escal econom crisi associ also neg effect sustain development, 2030 goals.",1
2,"last 75 years, member state painstakingli built unit nation peace, cooper development. duty-bound strengthen reinvigor world’ largest multilater organization, particularli face immens challeng opportun 21st century.",1
1,"warn stem realiti experience. tension yemen, syria, libya, iraq state relat blatant interfer arab affair made state incit strife discord, histor delus restor domin coloni rule arab region horn africa. result brutal wars. context, recal firm posit reject region interfer arab affairs, request full respect sovereignty, fulli consist intern law intern norms.",1
1,"mind, address three major topics. first, speak imper find collect unit respons global health emerg brought covid-19 pandemic.",1
1,"sudan current experienc except circumst due impact unpreced torrenti rain floods, exacerb challeng alreadi face. flood nile led sever loss human life properti throughout area adjac it. great damag also caus rain flood vast areas, includ partial total collaps ten thousand homes. would like, regard, pay tribut friendli brotherli countri demonstr solidar provid gener support respons catastrophe.",1
1,"armenia, attack azerbaijani territori july, prove biggest obstacl last peac stabil south caucasus.",1
2,"narrow nationalist polici undermin intern cooper make matter worse, better.",1
0,"today’ imper combat pandem togeth multilater joint action, deed word alone, build equal world, better equip withstand crise achiev real sustain develop all.",1
0,"furthermore, royal thai govern also introduc econom respons packag reliev financi burden peopl busi operators, whether low-incom groups, women entrepreneurs, farmers, vulner group ensur guarante equal access govern assistance. effort focus boost financi liquid entrepreneur sustain businesses. regard, set “centr econom situat administration”  cesa  act main mechan formul comprehens polici econom social rehabilit synerg effort public privat sectors.",1
2,new technolog artifici intellig alreadi becom backbon daili live keep busi essenti public servic running.,1
2,"refus power help reviv economi — whether moratoria refinancing, even access concession loan grant — caus us greater econom hardship.",1
1,adopt similar approach climat action maintain increas climat ambit context pandem prevent post-covid rebound greenhous ga emissions.,1
0,“we therefor call intern commun greater sustain support multin joint task forc lake chad basin g-5 sahel joint forc establish countri region combat boko haram jihadist group sahel.,1
0,"must rapidli implement comprehens meaning reforms, start restructur secur council.",1
1,"uruguay develop nation climat chang respons plan, address risk prevention, mitig adaptation.",1
2,"govern commit issu why, first time history, creat ministri women, gender diversity, well nation cabinet, ensur gender polici cross-cutting.",1
0,"order strengthen mitig adaptation, govern develop climat chang respons polici nation adapt plan. work civil society, academia, intern partners, acceler implement commit pari agreement.",1
2,year celebr diamond jubile unit nation organization. gratifi continu make qualit differ live mani peopl throughout world. jubil sadli mar covid 19 pandem brought fore import uniti effect multilater cooper build futur want.,1
0,"context, congratul aptli chosen theme 75th session welcom opportun address assembl share perspect “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action.” small nation like well big nation anticip even depend us share care other.",1
1,"addition, avail opportun want invit friend particip establish intern crimea platform concert action protect right crimean de occupi peninsula.",1
2,"cooper un secur council au peac secur council contribut improv peac secur darfur region sudan, south sudan, somalia, mali central african republic.",1
1,"believ global strateg collabor complimentari financi — econom approach required. achiev closer partnership imf, world bank wto.",1
0,"mani peopl around world, 2020 year unparallel challenge. covid-19 unleash complex web health, econom social issu sore test government, busi commun systems. pandem expos exist vulner alert us threat new ones. seen exacerb alreadi unaccept high rate global inequ poverti face.",1
1,ensur countri left behind reiter posit african union econom sanction zimbabw sudan lift allow govern respond adequ pandemic. also call suspens interest payment africa’ extern public debt.,1
0,"must first identifi driver turmoil. five sources, afghanistan deal simultaneously. covid-19 pandem expos vulnerabilities, point we, global community, could longer afford ignor them. afghan fortun contain first wave pandem close government, busi societ cooperation, minim input un agencies, pandem expos gap system must addressed.",1
0,"believ multilater allow us overcom enorm challeng face world. indeed, health crisi caus covid-19 pandem ravag world shown us combin effort intern solidar help us mitig nefari worldwid impacts.",1
0,call suppli medic equip drug vaccin develop effort made issu competition.,1
1,"solomon island part, remain commit reduc carbon footprint doubl nation determin contribut ongo work tina hydropow project. 15-megawatt hydropow project reduc relianc fossil fuel 70 per cent. despit challeng brought covid-19, effort project commiss 2024 remain track continu call develop partner remain us steadi trajectory.",1
2,"war impos us caus humanitarian catastrophe, destroy societi led wave collect displacement. also caus repression, forc disappear worst case poverti ever seen peopl decades. extend hand peace. done utmost support facilit effort unit nation current special envoy, mr. martin griffiths, well previou envoys, view save countri establish last comprehens peace. goal stop bloodlet yemen yemeni catastroph yemeni peopl accept iranian model territory, regardless circumst challenges.",1
1,"pandem shed new light humanity’ need strengthen multilater system, base principl ideal enshrin un charter intern law.",1
1,post-pandem world exacerb sever refuge displac person crisi face planet region. answer promot guarante human right migrants.,1
2,"today, world face tremend challeng form covid-19 pandem health, humanitarian, econom repercuss compel us stand togeth order face common challeng world. presid g20, kingdom coordin intern effort hold leaders’ summit last march coordin global effort combat pandem curb humanitarian econom impacts. summit, kingdom announc pledg $500 million support effort combat pandemic, reinforc emerg prepared responses. kingdom continu promot global respons effort confront pandem address repercussions.",1
2,"el salvador, tri time clean hous regard problem lie ahead, but, thank god, see tangibl results. help friendli countries, succeed drastic lower insecur indicators, includ homicides, extort robberies, among others. administration, save averag nine live day murder — nine famili mourn death love one. thank god achiev much faster thought possible.",1
2,firmli believ collect commit need achiev swift effect implement pari agreement.,1
1,"believ reciproc step specif issu would provid sound basi launch serious, profound dialogu entir rang factor affect strateg stability. would aim achiev comprehens arrangements, shape solid foundat intern secur architectur would build prior experi field line exist futur politico-militari technolog realia.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem come prove act coordination, respons share effici manner thu satisfactori result achieved.",1
2,"need break present climat distrust. present, wit eros multilateralism, seriou light develop new form militari technology, lethal autonom weapon system  law  irrevers alter natur warfare, detach human agency.",1
1,"sever short- medium-term challeng need overcome. first, need defeat covid-19 together. need understand none us, nation larg small, safe us safe together. need global cooperation, less. ensur medic suppli scientif collabor continu flow across borders, need intensifi exchang inform infect protocols, hope resum semblanc “normal” life, includ resumpt intern travel, safely.",1
2,current pandem exacerb exist discrimin inequ risk sexual gender-bas violence. disproportion impact women’ girls’ access essenti health services. robust fund sexual reproduct health right must priority.,1
2,arbitrari engag countri like barbado must cease. done without knowledg involvement. contrari law natur justice. combin factor push countri back state postcoloni penury.,1
0,pandem come show global level weak health structur respond problem high magnitud severity.,1
2,best mean address current global threat effect multilateralism. less multilater cooper would magnifi problem challeng face societies.,1
0,"fulli realiz responsibility, russia suggest conven g5 summit. would aim reaffirm key principl behavior intern affairs, elabor way effect address today’ burn issues. encourag partner support initiative. expect hold summit — person — soon epidemiolog situat make possible.",1
1,"continu work industri sector achiev net-zero emissions, least within “leadership group industri transition” launch india last year’ climat summit. call ambiti nation determin contribut pari agreement. work ambiti outcom cop26 glasgow.",1
0,"occas 75th anniversari unit nations, take opportun assess previou success failures. although unit nation abl solv global problem faced, becom clear multilater inclus prevent larg scale arm conflict, protect world arbitrari exercis power. therefor commit strengthen multilater system cooper framework unit nation order respond chang world situation, new global challenges, live expect new generation. unit nation desire, unit nation need.",1
0,"regard, wish share zambian govern launch multi sector youth empower programm support young entrepreneurs. multi-sector approach help ensur programm activ empow creat employ opportun youth mainstream across sectors.",1
1,"juli escalation, call intern commun mostli respect ceasefire, dialogu restraint. turkey, however, much line destabil polici power project neighbor regions, includ east mediterranean, north africa middl east, spare effort fuel tension south caucasus, well. unilater support azerbaijan expans militari presenc there, turkey undermin effort peac stabil region, well effort osc minsk group co-chair end. turkey directli threaten armenia put show aggress militari postur way provoc joint militari drill azerbaijan close vicin armenia nagorno karabakh. turkey build polici region tradit kinship, exploit conflicts, justif armenian genocid impun crime. turkey pose secur threat armenia region. context, armenia continu activ engag region intern effort maintain peac secur dialogu cooperation.",1
0,"“at time world face coronavirus, terror continu rage ground africa, particularli lake chad basin sahelo-saharan region, claim innoc victim daili basi serious compromis develop effort countri region.",1
0,"come back first driver — covid-19 pandem — scope scale impact forc us see four drivers, worsen highlight pandemic.",1
1,arbitrari engag countri like barbado must cease. done without knowledg involvement. contrari law natur justice. combin factor push countri back state postcoloni penury.,1
1,togeth close cooper realiz dream aspir afghan people.,1
1,"mark 75th anniversari this, great institution, cannot conclud that, unit nations’ import continu relev mankind beyond question. context need revit fulfil ideal established.",1
2,"climat change, pari agreement establish import global consensu action climat change. must lose sight goal preserv planet futur generations. covid-19 show inextric link well-b health one planet environ envelop us. irrefut respect biodivers wildlif essenti humankind’ health existence. countri therefor align recoveri effort longterm climat goals.",1
0,"occasion, reiter firm stanc state qatar way end syrian crisi polit solut base geneva communiqu  1 , implement secur council resolut 2254  2015 . state qatar also affirm continue, intern community, support effort realiz justic hold account perpetr atrocities, war crime crime human commit syria.",1
0,"outset, would like extend sincerest congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session un gener assembly, wish success fulfil duties.",1
1,"continu support world health organisation’   effort formul respons covid-19 facilit vaccin development. postpandemic, may necessari review process improv further, now, focu immedi prioriti overcom pandemic.",1
2,"never human histori mani opportun abl want do, honest creat want create. network allow us instantli connect best mind anywher world. network enabl us connect peopl interests, aspir vision world. speak individual’ perspective. imagin humankind do.",1
1,"fifth driver turmoil culmin first four — unpreced explos inequ continu perpetu state turmoil, — unless — take action. afghanistan focus human capit human secur creat equal opportun fellow citizen societ stabil people.",1
2,"unit nation continu broaden sphere action recent years: rang improv people’ live condit development-rel matter becom key element multilater agenda. develop view formula erad poverty, fight inequ injustice, initi climat action. clear pandem worsen situation, must also serv incent push paradigm change, govern andorra convinc right moment build better greener world, nation level, approach sustain transvers manner main line polit action, intern level within area cooper  world must sustain ceas be.",1
2,"prevent genocid unwav prioriti armenia. nation endur horrors, moral respons human preserv memori victim genocid contribut effort intern commun prevent recurr horrend crimes.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem left devast social econom consequences. live depend accur time information. full exercis right freedom expression, access public inform protect journalist key wellb societies.",1
2,"likewise, multilater institutions, world trade organis  wto , need reform well. wto neutral arbit intern trade disput mandat monitor enforc intern agre trade laws. singapore, strong support rule base multilater trade system, believ valu wto, brought decad prosper us. however, wto’ rule design agricultur manufacturing- base world economy, today urgent need reform. world need appropri rule services, especi digit servic intellectu property, prepar digit age unfold front us.",1
0,"indeed, need recal climat chang devast effect populations, particularli increas poverty, rural exodus, social exclus intercommun tension natur resources.",1
0,"establish owe virus’ highli contagi nature, prevent measur take today suffici counter eventu elimin it. vaccin therefor continu last solution. regard, countri encourag research way throughout world achiev goal. although promising, alreadi deal issu access futur vaccines. true pharmaceut compani commit enorm financi resourc end, must sacrific human econom profit. therefor need ensur access futur covid-19 vaccin equitable, afford subject market forces. accordingly, welcom adopt resolut wha73.1 gener assembl world health organ  , pursuant member state provid full access vaccin relat medicin shall timely, equitable, high quality, safe afford all. countri also welcom covax facil initi launch — mechan group purchas eventu covid-19 vaccines, coordin global allianc vaccin immun — guarante everi particip countri fair equit access vaccin alloc framework intend set up.",1
0,"un secretary-gener alreadi initi essenti work. reform un gear toward meet new challenges, also promot forg consensu amongst member state emerg issues. need continu emphasi longstand issu like support small island develop state least develop countries.",1
0,"peoples’ expect high pressing, countri urg state assum respons meet commit take action, which, blunt, entail revit reform organization, particularli princip organs, includ secur council, order make repres better adapt demand time. firmli believ greater transparency, justice, equiti democracy, strict respect sovereign equal digniti states, particularli africa, enabl organ write new chapter existence. end, must give temptat turn inwardli nations. let us rather move forward togeth unit hope peac develop peopl remain firmli committed.mr. president,",1
1,"process, depriv valu human connection, know, huge psycho-soci impact. may realiz today bear brunt line. could impact entir gener children mind today.",1
1,"sahel, example, terror violent extrem found fertil ground, result death toll, destruct infrastructur looting, therebi maintain environ fear. backdrop polit institut instability, poverty, exclusion, porou border illiteracy, among others.",1
1,"current crisi also demonstr solidar must empti word promise. also shown us import avoid everi temptat exceed natur limits. “we freedom need limit direct technolog  put servic anoth type progress, one healthier, human, social, integral”. also need taken care consider discuss complex issu artifici intellig  ai .",1
0,"slowdown econom activ area privat sector caus unpreced increas unemploy prompt activ unemploy benefit programm self-employ assist programme, well social safeti programmes, includ nation food distribut program, largest feed program nation’ history.",1
0,"natur relat africa countri coloni past redefin order transform pain histori colon opportun mutual benefici cooperation, cannot lose sight fact conquest enslav africa strong resist peopl africa defend invas free coloni yoke claim million live africa left deep wound remain unhealed.",1
1,"“concern issu climat change, chad — sahelian countri subject harm effect existenti threat, strongli affect sector make foundat economi — remain commit implement pari agreement climat change.",1
1,"therefore, order ensur proper recoveri economi ensur global sociopolit stability, need focu intern solidar cooperation.",1
2,"samoa remain covid-free, spare seriou life chang impact nation, people, still recov devast decemb 2019 measl outbreak claim 80 young lives. experi test resolv nation, also strengthen uniti resilience. importantly, reaffirm trust invest genuin partnerships.",1
0,"first, modern suppli chain complex. extrem difficult complet onshor product key item sinc materi expertis elsewher alway need multipl step process. mani countri experienc disrupt flow essenti good lockdowns. suppli chain base “just-in-time” effici review basi “just-in-case”.",1
0,"mher yegiazarian, armenian journalist politician die prison follow hunger strike januari 2019. reaction intern organ whose duti observ democraci human right worldwide. human right watch, amnesti international, freedom hous other turn blind eye unhuman brutal action despot regim armenia. reason pashinyan regim financ support soro sponsor mani so-cal human right non-government organ worldwide.",1
2,"would like take opportun call everi member gener assembl perman member secur council help us achiev end-stat sovereign, unit democrat afghanistan, peac region, capabl preserv expand gain last 19 years. democrat stabl prosper afghanistan exampl collect overcom turmoil uncertainti defin world today. thank you.hi excel antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nations.",1
0,"also would like highlight exemplari manner tackl problem result covid-19 pandemic, whose effect consequ would taken dramat proport experienc now, world health organ special agenc unit nation system act quickli pass recommend greatli help control spread disease.",1
0,"climat change, pari agreement establish import global consensu action climat change. must lose sight goal preserv planet futur generations. covid-19 show inextric link well-b health one planet environ envelop us. irrefut respect biodivers wildlif essenti humankind’ health existence. countri therefor align recoveri effort longterm climat goals.",1
1,"uniti human needs, requir function multilater system respect democrat principl sovereignty, particip consent  reject bulli doctrin exclusion, imposit abus econom sanctions.",1
0,"regard climate, necessari recal planet, live live gener come, face crisi worsen day dramat rise climat sceptics. climat crisi put decad progress risk jeopard project undertaken bring inclus sustain development, while, time, clock continu click without wait us act.",1
0,togeth close cooper realiz dream aspir afghan people.,1
2,"fight plastic pollution, worrisom tonga note alarm 12 million tonn plastic wast leak ocean annually. place great interest address threat begin process ban single-us plastics. nation region problem, also global problem, requir global solution.",1
1,"current situat world becom complicated, volatil turbul background grow geopolitical, geo-econom competit extens modern threat challenges, particularli spread coronaviru disease.",1
1,"1945, unit nation emerg ruin devast war history. organ led way tackl univers challeng creat institut framework made signific progress area import human rights, poverti eradication, consolid democrat institutions, fight climat chang promot sustain development, also provid protect vulner arm conflicts. thank multilateralism, unit nation often abl reach area tradit diplomaci not. even time present one, pandem expos weak states, unit nation continu see cooper antidot confrontation. perspective, would like highlight work organ carri out, especi secretari general, within context fragil present situat which, unfortunately, share mani common point scenario led found unit nations.",1
1,"oper welcome, led brazilian ministri defense, receiv almost 400,000 venezuelan displac result deep polit econom crisi bred venezuelan dictatorship.",1
2,"2030 agenda sustain develop goal stipul that, “there sustain develop without peac peac without sustain development”. achiev sustain intern peac security, must put end occupation. adher norm principl intern law implement un secur council resolut must ensured.",1
2,"solomon island part, remain commit reduc carbon footprint doubl nation determin contribut ongo work tina hydropow project. 15-megawatt hydropow project reduc relianc fossil fuel 70 per cent. despit challeng brought covid-19, effort project commiss 2024 remain track continu call develop partner remain us steadi trajectory.",1
2,"covid-19 crisi brought stark realiz import solidar cooper — among within multilater organizations, world health organization.",1
1,"grate theme chosen session: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. theme give member state opportun construct contribut work gener assembly. covid-19 pandem probabl one arduou challeng histori unit nations. surely, violent blow countri endur — still endur — long time. one forget. san marino among countri sever affect pandemic. viru caus death last month country, reason celebrations. san marino remain one countri suffer highest rate infect world, dramat consequ community.",1
2,"wish remind us all, collect effort combat coronavirus, must lose sight need address ongo challeng brought climat change. reiter government’ call action greater mean implement reduc greenhous ga emissions. furthermore, call state set ambiti nation determin contributions. let us adher scienc tell us strive maintain global temperatur increas 1.5 degre celsius.",1
1,world live fearsom intern peac secur threat worldwid geostrateg tensions.,1
0,"anoth instanc one-sided global financi system organis limit membership engag univers “blacklisting”, correspond bank relationship unilater withdrawn. small countri blacklist dare exert sovereign right creat taxat system forc compet rule voic setting.",1
2,"also experienc whole new challeng coronaviru pandemic. diseas directli affect million peopl claim import thing: live hundr thousand people. quarantines, border closures, numer seriou troubl citizen almost state constitut present-day realia. especi difficult elderli peopl who, due necessari restrictions, abl hug love ones, children grandchildren week even months.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem present existenti threat unmatch proport human health safeti around world. overwhelm health sectors, disturb global trade food suppli chains, crush travel leisur industri well disrupt basic livelihood peopl around world. alarmingli pandem intensifi vulner small economi render us suscept exogen shocks. further, covid-19 threaten revers gains, societi achiev toward attain sustain develop goal  sdg  targets.",1
2,critic item today’ agenda. issu environment protect climat chang remain focu joint efforts.,1
0,"firmli believ mutual cooperation, harmon posit mutual respect, global respons face modern plagu found.",1
1,"botswana acceler access inclusive, equit qualiti educ through, amongst interventions, implement educ train sector strateg plan. etssp, it’ commonli known, aim transform learn ensur access, retention, promot life-long learn skill development.",1
1,"likewise, multilater institutions, world trade organis  wto , need reform well. wto neutral arbit intern trade disput mandat monitor enforc intern agre trade laws. singapore, strong support rule base multilater trade system, believ valu wto, brought decad prosper us. however, wto’ rule design agricultur manufacturing- base world economy, today urgent need reform. world need appropri rule services, especi digit servic intellectu property, prepar digit age unfold front us.",1
0,immens effort need contrast health emerg global econom contract result unpreced structur challeng country. succeed re-establish previou level wealth health intern solidar tremend effort peopl,1
0,"assess way forward achiev agre sustain develop goal 2030 midst global covid-19 pandemic, must also re-examin futur want unit nation need attain it. covid-19 devast lesson loudest possibl wake-up call need global cooperation, effect partnership firm commit multilater confront together. covid-19 recogn borders, nationality, gender econom statu nation individu — equal victims. therefore, unifi solut must found protect everi human it.",1
2,"despit cruelty, pandem given us opportun increasingli awar import sustain develop goal 2030 agenda.",1
0,"particularli appreci organization’ effort includ civil societi privat sector, part solut economic, social environment issu arise, inclus sustain develop requir particip entir society.",1
2,"may speak plainly, insuffici today. necessari detail work save aral sea concret practic assist support provid peopl live there. thus, strongli believ that, subject aral sea need systemat comprehens approach well relev legal document issu set separ direct un activities. regard, turkmenistan put forward initi creat special program aral sea basin.",1
0,"covid-19 crisi proven disinform hostil action inform environ threaten intern human security, effect addressed. crisi demonstr crucial need access reliable, accur science-bas information. thus, confirm role free, independent, account pluralist media strengthen transparency, account trust.",1
1,"first, covid-19 result mount debt countri least afford servic them. essenti multilater financi institut provid debt forgiv relief. accompani tailor concession financ packag grants. measur ensur adequ fiscal space countri weather current crisis, also financ implement sustain develop priorities. acknowledg great work alreadi gone ahead area, however, believ need done.",1
2,"outset, allow me, behalf govern peopl solomon islands, offer sincerest condol lost love one coronavirus. stand solidar all, sad times.",1
1,"decad action sdgs, must also work togeth protect planet ecosystems. need resort ration use planetari resourc pursu econom growth, full respect biodiversity. biodivers summit offer uniqu opportun show ambit acceler action biodivers sustain development.",1
0,pain lesson learn sinc outbreak pandem underscor urgent need continu collect approaches.,1
1,"refus power help reviv economi — whether moratoria refinancing, even access concession loan grant — caus us greater econom hardship.",1
1,"allow conclud reaffirm commit revit post covid-19 multilater support theme session. multilater compris global solidar cooperation, empathy, inclus resilience, note import protect vulner individuals, address inequ ensur univers access afford covid-19 medic vaccine, build back better, leav one behind.mr. president,",1
0,"“i would like acknowledg leadership excel mr. matamela cyril ramaphosa, presid republ south africa chairperson african union, well african union commission. abl put continent strategi place respond pandem take time measur aim pool medic suppli member states, safeguard african economi research vaccin covid-19, inter alia.",1
0,"venezuela tradit host countri refuge migrants. however, direct consequ crimin unilater coerciv measur econom aggress impos govern unit state people, process migrat citizen taken place, fundament econom reasons.",1
2,"third, covid-19 pandem serv stern warn us all, requir stronger commit stronger action promot sustainable, inclus human-cent development. 2030 agenda sustain develop continu framework cooper overcom pandem sustain recovery. polici action interest peopl heart, one, country, left behind. develop countri receiv financi assistance, technolog commerci facilit realiz sustain develop goals.",1
0,unusu gather today prove ongo covid-19 pandem chang world know it. onlin form evid adapt act.,1
1,"global health problem paralyz momentum built recoveri world economy, econom crisi start 2008, alreadi send encourag signal recoveri special develop countries, case angola.",1
0,"think key condit polit stabilization, social econom recoveri afghanistan, success integr global economi implement larg infrastructur project afghanistan’ involv primarili vital sector energy, transport communications.",1
1,"behalf govern people, may take opportun congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. wealth experi serv organ well, lead us agenda, particularli unpreced challeng times, world navig way global pandem caus covid-19. let assur solomon island support cooper tenur office.",1
0,"though face multipl challenges, collective, press forward, slowly, steadily, forg agre system rule norm better, stronger, transpar consist ever before. result intern order overseen unparallel advanc human liberty, attain digniti amongst peoples, given rise prosper global economi sought uplift billion peopl poverty.",1
0,"covid-19 becom defin crisi time. global death toll continu rise, global economy, trade, travel sever disrupted. million job hundr thousand live lost.",1
1,"socio-econom wellb peopl remain core samoa’ develop initiatives. promotion, respect of, protect fulfil human right fundament freedoms, indispens ensur one left behind. commit human right approach sustain development. continu invest robust system process improv effect inclus implement human right obligations. ensur linkag core sustain develop nation secur priorities.",1
2,"world face period prolong turmoil. multilater system confront nationalism, xenophobia, reject free trade global econom integration, bifurc technolog suppli chains. threat new. covid-19 fact acceler intensifi preexist trends. protection unilater action ultim self defeating.",1
2,australia support who’ effort develop global framework vaccin therapeut alloc fairly.,1
2,"beliz tourism dependent, export orient country. invariably, therefore, travel tourism industri shutdown market agro product depressed, economi flounders. date 73 per cent worker tourism sector, labour intens sector economy, lost jobs. seemli simultaneously, countri beset health crisi econom crisis. order deal health crisis, govern establish bipartisan nation oversight committe  noc  broad supervisori respons belize’ covid-19 respons recoveri initiatives, includ initi mitig impact covid-19 pandem societi economy.",1
0,"theme 75th gener assembl call us, member state unit nations, come togeth frame futur want. vanuatu, extraordinarili difficult year backdrop start next phase nation building, mark independ celebr culmin ldc graduat months. hope share experi contribut global learn navig current crisi work togeth pursuit sustain peac sustain development. emerg grip covid-19, continu align nation global recoveri exist commit reorient growth model one sustain greener nature.",1
0,"wish remind us all, collect effort combat coronavirus, must lose sight need address ongo challeng brought climat change. reiter government’ call action greater mean implement reduc greenhous ga emissions. furthermore, call state set ambiti nation determin contributions. let us adher scienc tell us strive maintain global temperatur increas 1.5 degre celsius.",1
2,"unit nations, within current world context, portray realiti total differ one basi establishment, seek reflect within intern structur characterist geopolit realiti nowaday order render organ abl safeguard balanc global interests.",1
2,"third, breach contractu oblig export critic good movement peopl erod trust nations.",1
0,"face vulner exacerb pandemic, anoth driver inequ unemploy upend world — 4th industri revolution. digit age upon us, challeng us adapt way consume, way work, way govern.",1
0,"welcom tireless effort made un secretary-general, unit nation special agencies, foundat programm provid immedi long-term assist member state tackl humanitarian socio-econom repercuss covid-19 pandemic.",1
0,would also enabl everyon 100 per cent digit compet help deriv advantag technolog corner world.,1
0,"“the highli relev theme session, ‘the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action’, fulli underlin import must attach intern cooper multilater irreplac mean address major common challeng pandemics, climat change, terrorism, poverti inequality, name few.",1
2,"uruguay develop nation climat chang respons plan, address risk prevention, mitig adaptation.",1
1,"econom commiss latin america caribbean  eclac  forecast gross domest product  gdp  caribbean contract 6.9 per cent 2020, effect covid-19 economies.",1
0,"need pay special attent need vulner groups, especi young people. econom effect result pandem lead increas number unemploy young people, prompt flee countri origin.",1
0,"fear insecur seiz people, health system weaken socio-econom fabric total shaken, caus loss million jobs. march 21, first posit case confirm country. first state emerg decreed, citizen alreadi took action.",1
2,"pandem highlight import resili nation health system strong domest health financing. african union champion agenda among member states, emphasi spend more, spend better. goal africa leverag resourc reinforc impact global health partnerships, global fund gavi.",1
0,"somalia, govern peopl work close togeth mitig worst effect covid-19 pandemic. like govern across world, priorit health citizen much possibl save lives. direct medic provis consistent, updat effect public health information, govern utmost keep popul safe possible. covid-19 cases, rise quickli earli stage pandemic, fallen steadili result government’ swift actions.",1
1,"respond determin fast world recovers, shape abil achiev sustain develop goal manag global challenges.",1
1,"pleas even difficult period caus covid-19 pandem high level mutual solidar region demonstrated, great extent precis result construct proactiv relationship serbia build previou year neighbors. cooper intens region countri relat repatri citizen relat issu humanitarian medic assistance, also regular suppli goods.",1
0,"yes, today speak first new danger face human twenty-first century. short time, covid-19 becom real perhap threaten challeng time. global challeng recogn borders, races, nationalities, detriment effect sphere civiliz development. perhap whole world felt vulner common threat sever first time mani decades. hope believ uniti solidar overcom defeat allow mankind becom renewed, wiser, respons farsight battle. even though current period difficult controversi give us chanc chang better sake entir planet’ destiny. highest polit moral duti miss chance, show dignity, solidar true humanism.",1
2,"context, wish note revolut govern hasten remov restrict obstacl hinder deliveri humanitarian aid need conflict areas. within framework, part nation plan improv humanitarian action ensur need popul met, state adopt project find sustain solut improv live condit displac persons, accord provis intern instrument law govern humanitarian work",1
2,"must cours keep distanc pandemic, must also close rank joint struggl cooper challeng threaten intern community.",1
0,"african continent, respons coronaviru swift effective. continent strategi fight pandem driven region econom communities. african union establish covid-19 respons fund launch ground-break african medic suppli platform ensur countri access necessari equip supplies.",1
2,"overcom pandem achiev goal 2030 agenda requir economic, industri social polici aim bring structur chang economies.",1
2,adopt similar approach climat action maintain increas climat ambit context pandem prevent post-covid rebound greenhous ga emissions.,1
1,"regard climate, necessari recal planet, live live gener come, face crisi worsen day dramat rise climat sceptics. climat crisi put decad progress risk jeopard project undertaken bring inclus sustain development, while, time, clock continu click without wait us act.",1
2,"need unit nation 4.0, foundat valu intact vision incorpor immens technolog chang way, make human, democrat social inclusive.",1
2,"pandem alreadi claim 1 million live — million lost dreams, million peopl mourn death love one million live forev changed. must continu work prevent number increasing. god grant prayer them.",1
2,"realist plan build strength country, health social protect system, educ model country’ high level public safety, histor uniqueness, cultur divers privileg natur environment. however, plan also identifies, one would expect, aspect need improv base belief sustain — understood transvers sens — main guid line polit action. reason, develop roadmap awar impact action taken moment effect endur way beyond present time. action line sustain develop goals, govern institut must main catalyst chang promot unit nations.",1
2,"though face multipl challenges, collective, press forward, slowly, steadily, forg agre system rule norm better, stronger, transpar consist ever before. result intern order overseen unparallel advanc human liberty, attain digniti amongst peoples, given rise prosper global economi sought uplift billion peopl poverty.",1
0,"commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation year, fit note institut made great progress area peacebuilding, respect human right promot truli sustain development, despit prejudic overcome. one organization’ major achiev area promot peac security, peacekeep oper help save mani live restor stabil secur world plagu conflict emerg threat terror violent extremism. peacekeep operations, one major troop-contribut countri togo activ participant, enhanc improv time. right occas welcom fact move resolut increasingli toward prevent multidimension approach.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem deepen crise african continent. tunisia stress commit continu work african brother intern partner achiev sustain comprehens develop overcom challeng face together. context, reiter support silenc gun africa. initi ongo effort need greater intern support order african contin free conflict focu construct development.",1
0,"economi weakens, insuffici respons intern commun debt reschedul access concession financing, unemploy poverti growing.",1
0,live tri unparallel times. never leader requir make hard decis close border provid near absolut guarante peopl arriv covid-19 pandem limit commun transmiss virus. uncertainti face test mettl nation govern like never before. samoa extend sincer condol un famili live lost due pandem pay tribut selfless servic frontlin worker risk live bring covid-19 control.,1
0,"one singl resourc financ product sector recoveri diverted, given current context, serv need biosafeti necess urgent epidemiolog natur brought pandemic.",1
2,"also respons intern commun stop bloodsh yemen, continu five years, stop humanitarian crisis.",1
0,"note pandemic, estim 783 million peopl live extrem poverti globally. however, june 2020, world bank project pandem could push addit 71 million peopl extrem poverti 2020, therefor revers gain made recent decades.",1
1,"effect climat change, includ increasingli frequent sever weather phenomena, flood droughts, diminish fresh water resources, desertification, land degrad sea-level rise, threaten entir populations, depriv livelihoods.",1
1,"today, world face tremend challeng form covid-19 pandem health, humanitarian, econom repercuss compel us stand togeth order face common challeng world. presid g20, kingdom coordin intern effort hold leaders’ summit last march coordin global effort combat pandem curb humanitarian econom impacts. summit, kingdom announc pledg $500 million support effort combat pandemic, reinforc emerg prepared responses. kingdom continu promot global respons effort confront pandem address repercussions.",1
2,"covid-19 also shone new light exist global challeng conflicts, includ escal threat arm race terror  continu human right abus  climat chang  displac peopl  scourg non-communic disease, disrupt technolog revolut redefin futur work. around world see fallout pandem deepen commun divisions, escal geopolit tensions, chang trade relat threaten peace.",1
1,"outset, let also, behalf govern peopl sierra leone, express heartfelt deep condol member state unit nation loss live due covid-19 pandemics. salut selfless frontlin respond global emergency.",1
0,"say revitalis exist set-up has, despit lesson past outbreak viruses, fail respond adequ covid-19 devast consequences.",1
2,"context endeavor prepar appropri condit reach peac respond econom humanitarian difficulti face brother palestine, we, coordin intern partners, continu provid humanitarian development aid cater urgent longterm need besieg gaza strip, addit increas contribut unrwa.",1
2,"govern enhanc interconnected manag build 3,500 kilometr road numer larg bridg past five years. moreover, upgrad major port transport facilities, rang standard-gaug railway run central tanzania restor railway transport facil eastern corridor. mileston includ manufactur refurbish ship improv water transport connect area surround bodi water. govern also overseen procur 11 aeroplanes, eight oper commercially.",1
0,"‘unit nation’, must dissuad tension nation creat play pandemic. everi public privat institut must readi promot intern cooperation, get better prepar deal futur global threat commit multilateralism. covid-19 gener strong global viewpoint peopl dread think backward inward think forward outward, hope creat world want. achiev effect all-benefit multilater build back better togeth call ensur one left behind. entail leverag exist innov partnerships, coordin responses, refrain protectionist measures, strengthen inclusion, invest technolog sustain econom social sector midst crises, among other",1
0,"unit kingdom persist attitud ignor call resum negoti territori disput aggrav disput call illeg unilater exploit renew non-renew natur resourc area, run counter gener assembl resolut 31 49.",1
2,countri make real progress address global issu other left behind sidelines.,1
0,"believ reciproc step specif issu would provid sound basi launch serious, profound dialogu entir rang factor affect strateg stability. would aim achiev comprehens arrangements, shape solid foundat intern secur architectur would build prior experi field line exist futur politico-militari technolog realia.",1
1,"support intern community, includ sever countri repres here, privat sector, civil societi intern academ community, key restor public debt sustainability.",1
0,"“the intern community, particular un, must increas momentum doubl effort ensur develop african continent, greatest number least develop countri located, place centr intern prioriti concret action reflect commitment. increas involv un, whose leadership crucial ever renew commit stakehold make possibl provid decis impetu requir mobil resourc need achiev promis 2030 agenda support countri alreadi path achiev 17 sustain develop goals.",1
1,"again, success respons would possibl without effect partnership government, citizen intern partners. want pay special tribut courag duti health personnel risk live save others. also recogn patienc contribut somali privat sector, work govern keep economi functioning, provid vital servic somali peopl critic hour need.",1
1,"peac environ indispens address pandemic, must recommit dialogue, peac disput resolut rule law order allevi suffer bring hope vulner populations.",1
1,"wish remind us all, collect effort combat coronavirus, must lose sight need address ongo challeng brought climat change. reiter government’ call action greater mean implement reduc greenhous ga emissions. furthermore, call state set ambiti nation determin contributions. let us adher scienc tell us strive maintain global temperatur increas 1.5 degre celsius.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem continu disrupt destroy live livelihood also pose substant risk intern peac security. especi countri conflict emerg conflict, experienc humanitarian crises, weak fragil economi peacebuild post-war state-build could undermin reversed.",1
0,"polit militari conflict persist central african republic, eastern provinc democrat republ congo, south sudan, libya, sahel, emerg terrorist groups, action terrorist group el chebab east africa boko haram central west africa.",1
0,"conclusion, un need must ensur effect multilater mobil stakeholders, governments, financi busi sectors, academia civil society. order find sustain solut current global challenges, must hear voic society, women girls, youth children, well peopl vulner situations.",1
1,"“the whole world current experienc devast covid-19 pandemic, abil deal vari country. develop countries, particularli african ones, owe multipl structur weaknesses, expos advers consequ scourge.",1
1,"spirit solidar govern priorit sinc arriv pandem poverty, one safe, everyon safe.",1
0,"let assur zimbabw continu implement measur battl covid-19 pandemic. institut phase lockdowns, follow world health organ guidelines, govern also provid zwl$18 billion  approxim us$720 million  econom stimulu package.",1
0,"also welcom hold summit biodiversity, take place next week. express commit promot strategi practic sustain use biolog divers natur resources, develop mechan improv manag use.",1
0,"come decades, prosper close link digit literaci access high-spe connectivity. secretary-general’ roadmap digit cooper compel farsighted, build work broadband commiss initiatives.",1
0,"coronaviru pandem certainli mark year world, brought us challeng could even imagin that. taking, already, hundr hundr thousand lives, pandem sown misfortun throughout world  aggriev numer families, whose pain truli sympath with.",1
2,"rare unit nation multilater test test year un’ 75th anniversary, year world grappl covid-19 pandemic.",1
2,"framework covid-19 response, first case diseas diagnosed, 6 march, togo set crisi committee, person chair presid republic, nation coordin response, manag committe scientif committee. view disease’ long-term socioeconom impact, govern also launch nation solidar econom recoveri fund total 400 billion cfa francs, approxim $665 million. measur taken involv prevent social distancing, case detection, compulsori wear mask educ awareness-rais among population. also shut variou area country, establish curfew, close borders, school univers ban gatherings.",1
2,"democrat society, thailand place peopl centre. peopl provid vital social synergi help drive nation agendas, integr sector country. cooper generos thai peopl time crisis, impact outbreak minim situat brought control. note, wish thank world health organ recogn thailand one countri provid effect respons covid-19. however, continu remind sector public underestim situat remain vigil prevent second outbreak.",1
0,"never human histori mani opportun abl want do, honest creat want create. network allow us instantli connect best mind anywher world. network enabl us connect peopl interests, aspir vision world. speak individual’ perspective. imagin humankind do.",1
0,"alongwith govern assistance, collect fund distribut amount 2.5 billion taka among orphans, poor students, madrasas, mosques, temples, school teachers, artists, journalist otherwis includ government’ assist programmes. result, impact pandem among peopl minimal.",1
0,"part multilater disarma diplomacy, sweden — togeth 15 non-nuclear-weapon state — continu pursu stockholm initi nuclear disarmament, aim contribut success npt review conference.",1
0,"creation access covid tool accelerator, includ covax global vaccin facility, critic import africa. ensur equit access vaccines, therapeutics, diagnost speed end pandem everyone.",1
2,country’ govern attach great import issu rule law nation intern level make continu effort address nation law view develop ensur consist intern standard conventions. effort also consist multipl initi undertaken local relev author area build strengthen nation capac empow compet bodi fulfil respons task accord constitut relat laws. process achiev rule law nation level respons state governments.,1
0,"context, would also like recal one outstand histor figur unit nation — nobel peac prize laureat former secretary- gener dag hammarskjold, whose 115th birthday commemor year. consid one inspir tireless promot concept prevent diplomacy. dag hammarskjold, die crisi manag mission hotspot, believ mutual respect dialogu honest negoti among parti potenti conflict earli stage could prevent war igniting.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem left devast social econom consequences. live depend accur time information. full exercis right freedom expression, access public inform protect journalist key wellb societies.",1
2,"undoubtedly, last year prove ukrain realli strive peace. manag unblock dialogue, resum meet normandi format leaders, made substanti progress mutual releas detain persons. start 27 july, comprehens ceasefir place, which, despit attempt disrupt it, still give hope achiev sustain ceasefire. badli need keep move toward genuin peace.",1
1,"“the intern community, particular un, must increas momentum doubl effort ensur develop african continent, greatest number least develop countri located, place centr intern prioriti concret action reflect commitment. increas involv un, whose leadership crucial ever renew commit stakehold make possibl provid decis impetu requir mobil resourc need achiev promis 2030 agenda support countri alreadi path achiev 17 sustain develop goals.",1
1,live tri unparallel times. never leader requir make hard decis close border provid near absolut guarante peopl arriv covid-19 pandem limit commun transmiss virus. uncertainti face test mettl nation govern like never before. samoa extend sincer condol un famili live lost due pandem pay tribut selfless servic frontlin worker risk live bring covid-19 control.,1
0,"fifth driver turmoil culmin first four — unpreced explos inequ continu perpetu state turmoil, — unless — take action. afghanistan focus human capit human secur creat equal opportun fellow citizen societ stabil people.",1
0,"pandemic, indeed, call us “to seiz time trial time choosing, time choos matter pass away, time separ necessari not”. repres concret opportun conversion, transformation, rethink way life econom social systems, widen gap rich poor base unjust distribut resources. hand, pandem occas “defens retreat” greater individu elitism.",1
1,"promot protect human right core polici argentin state sinc 1983. decis result ratif grant constitut statu exist intern human right instruments, well activ particip region intern levels.",1
2,"let conclud reaffirm zimbabwe’ commit work better world. better way achiev peac andstabl world mutual respect, genuin multilater buttress much need reform respect intern law. recommit ideal pave way world yearn for.",1
2,"“climat chang remain one greatest challeng time. continu wit climate-chang disast across globe result consider loss life property. clear countri immun disasters. address climat chang call effect bold multilater action us. uganda, example, continu experi prolong droughts, melt ice cap highest mountain, mount rwenzori, floods, errat rainfal landslides. recent experienc impact intens prolong rainfal increas level major bodi water caus flood sever area country. govern continu invest climat adapt mitig measur includ expand access consumpt clean energi order enhanc production, well increas forest wetland cover, line ambiti nation determin contributions. invest enabl us halt, reduc revers environment degrad advers effect climat change, well improv sustain use natur resourc inclus econom growth.",1
2,"unit nation play pivot outstand role overse polit transit process yemen, ongo sinc 2011. accord gulf initi implement mechanism, start transit period. nation govern form presidenti elect took place. nation dialogu confer held particip strata yemeni society. new yemeni constitut draft accord outcom dialogue. suppos subject referendum yemeni peopl adopt allow elect held line new constitution. however, houthi coup d’etat disrupt transit process led war peopl yemen.",1
2,"order prevent loss reput intern organizations, must first review mentality, institut rules.",1
0,"compact requir design new, enhanc exist financi instrument guid sid economi current crisis, creat respons system maintain gains, reinforc resili climat chang achiev sustain development.",1
0,"houthi militia, sent repres ndc, welcom developments. start time prepar coup d’etat country. began mobil forc ensur collaps town citi displac citizen home regions. even invad capital, sana’a, septemb 2014, took state institut hostag undermin elect legitimaci polit climate. suppress freedoms, raid hous blew school place worship. suppress dissent voic harass citizens. militia transform sana’a, citi steep history, civil tradit coexistence, great prison put peopl behind bars.",1
0,"digit technolog central almost everi aspect respons pandem prerequisit achiev sdgs. develop use digit technologies, includ artifici intelligence, base ethic principles, must human-centred. promot protect human rights, democracy, good governance, account rule law must provid offlin online. thu need univers polit commit digit security. un galvan digit cooper global level contribut mobil actor ensur open, secur afford access digit infrastructur all.",1
2,"april 2016, armenia launch large-scal militari attack azerbaijan. result attack, 6 azerbaijani civilians, includ one child killed, 26 civilian wounded.",1
0,year celebr diamond jubile unit nation organization. gratifi continu make qualit differ live mani peopl throughout world. jubil sadli mar covid 19 pandem brought fore import uniti effect multilater cooper build futur want.,1
0,"across world, economi size sever impact covid-19 vulner affect most. somalia, like everywher els world, challeng pain contract economy, job loss need continu invest essenti basic public servic protect citizen deadli virus. appreciate, huge task recov post-conflict state like somalia govern remain steadfast rise respond divers challeng lie ahead.",1
0,"seem indisput us reason exist unit nation mainten peac secur world, essenti foster development.",1
0,"third, rebuild, must continu import work increas resili meet challeng pose digit revolution, cybersecur threats, climat change, transboundari pollution.",1
0,countri make real progress address global issu other left behind sidelines.,1
2,"truth, extrem level uncertainti make futur difficult predict, tri address question answer would simple.",1
1,"would also like call intern commun ensur current pandem result fail fulli honour commit made multilater level. must avoid fall prey nation protectionism, would way harm intern relat intern trade disrupt suppli chain distribut medic suppli necessari emerg health crisis.",1
1,"pandem alreadi claim 1 million live — million lost dreams, million peopl mourn death love one million live forev changed. must continu work prevent number increasing. god grant prayer them.",1
1,"come back first driver — covid-19 pandem — scope scale impact forc us see four drivers, worsen highlight pandemic.",1
0,"socio-econom stimulu packag worth $2 billion releas ensur econom stability, tackl employ issues, ensur macroeconom fiscal stability. social relief measur cover nearli 5 million people, half population.",1
2,"must lose sight unceas struggl poverty. view, greatest scourg humanity, main caus famine, soil degradation, unbridl exploit natur resources, arm conflicts, popul displacements, south-north migratori flow continu toll human lives.",1
1,kosova establish solid constitut legal framework provid unpreced protect right minor cultur heritage. fulli line often exce relev european acqui term human right protection.,1
2,interfer intern affair sanction restrict measur belaru opposit effect harm absolut everyone. alreadi experienc past.,1
0,"armenia countri oppos initi hold special session un gener assembl respons covid-19, wherea armenia, situat coronaviru desperate. armenia object initi azerbaijan launch it. object endeavor product irrat thought. anoth demonstr polici “azerbaijanophobia” prevail armenia promot government. hatr azerbaijani peopl instil young generation.",1
0,"regard, secretary-general’ call large-scal multilater respons marshal financi resourc least 10 per cent world’ gdp deserv full support, show us way effect address global challenges.",1
0,"last month, hundr afghan kill injured, entir home livelihood destroyed, massiv flood water rip provinc parwan 13 provinces. two year before, extrem — drought — led us nation-wid wheat shortag upend livelihood major popul reli job agricultur put food tables.",1
1,"“climat chang remain one greatest challeng time. continu wit climate-chang disast across globe result consider loss life property. clear countri immun disasters. address climat chang call effect bold multilater action us. uganda, example, continu experi prolong droughts, melt ice cap highest mountain, mount rwenzori, floods, errat rainfal landslides. recent experienc impact intens prolong rainfal increas level major bodi water caus flood sever area country. govern continu invest climat adapt mitig measur includ expand access consumpt clean energi order enhanc production, well increas forest wetland cover, line ambiti nation determin contributions. invest enabl us halt, reduc revers environment degrad advers effect climat change, well improv sustain use natur resourc inclus econom growth.",1
1,"intern commun must move forward basi equal justic regard, elimin weapon mass destruction.",1
1,"end, propos establish perman un commiss afghanistan would address concern long-suff afghan people.",1
2,"decad action sdgs, must also work togeth protect planet ecosystems. need resort ration use planetari resourc pursu econom growth, full respect biodiversity. biodivers summit offer uniqu opportun show ambit acceler action biodivers sustain development.",1
2,"reform secur council key aspect process transform could complet without fundament reform. end, kingdom eswatini wish reiter africa’ call perman membership secur council accord ezulwini consensus.",1
0,geopolit tension palpabl conflict way loom variou corner globe. health crisi exacerb tensions.,1
1,"democrat society, thailand place peopl centre. peopl provid vital social synergi help drive nation agendas, integr sector country. cooper generos thai peopl time crisis, impact outbreak minim situat brought control. note, wish thank world health organ recogn thailand one countri provid effect respons covid-19. however, continu remind sector public underestim situat remain vigil prevent second outbreak.",1
0,new technolog artifici intellig alreadi becom backbon daili live keep busi essenti public servic running.,1
1,"covid-19 pandem decim economi exacerb poverty, also shown us interconnect interdepend world is, must work togeth respond effect challeng confront us today.",1
1,"coronaviru outbreak led recess area nation economy, includ obstruct invest operations, foreign direct invest inflow, domest foreign trade, tourism services, particularli transport sector.",1
2,"pleas even difficult period caus covid-19 pandem high level mutual solidar region demonstrated, great extent precis result construct proactiv relationship serbia build previou year neighbors. cooper intens region countri relat repatri citizen relat issu humanitarian medic assistance, also regular suppli goods.",1
1,recoveri effort aim take us sustain resili futur requir recognit econom recoveri depend ecolog health. reviv econom activ expens environment sustainability.,1
0,"romania remain firm support multilater rules-bas intern order, un core. romania commit cooper safer futur all, promot sustain development, respect human rights, peac security. futur want!",1
0,"mr. president, barbados’ recoveri econom social impact covid-19 pandem slow painful. resuscit economi balanc act reopen tourism-rel servic air travel, ensur popul remain safe. given import global tourism industry, firm view worker sector prioritis among frontlin worker earmark receiv approv vaccinations. would put hundr million peopl back work stimul largest global econom driver,",1
1,unusu gather today prove ongo covid-19 pandem chang world know it. onlin form evid adapt act.,1
1,"covid-19 becom defin crisi time. global death toll continu rise, global economy, trade, travel sever disrupted. million job hundr thousand live lost.",1
2,"scale current pandem distress consequ — loss life impact health mani peopl — focu attent must seek solut peoples, particular vulner risk affect pandem result impact health, well way mean life.",1
1,"digit technolog central almost everi aspect respons pandem prerequisit achiev sdgs. develop use digit technologies, includ artifici intelligence, base ethic principles, must human-centred. promot protect human rights, democracy, good governance, account rule law must provid offlin online. thu need univers polit commit digit security. un galvan digit cooper global level contribut mobil actor ensur open, secur afford access digit infrastructur all.",1
1,"seychel agre need intern solidar cooper ever face worst human econom crisi lifetime, multilater work develop develop countries.",1
0,"membership kosova intern organizations, unit nation included, would benefit kosova, also whole intern community.",1
0,"2030 agenda sustain develop goal stipul that, “there sustain develop without peac peac without sustain development”. achiev sustain intern peac security, must put end occupation. adher norm principl intern law implement un secur council resolut must ensured.",1
0,"“chad call arm movement join process order achiev comprehens last peace, sudanes peopl greatli need.",1
0,massiv global econom restructur underway present world uniqu opportun pursu holist transform approach address numer escal global crise face make effici use resources.,1
1,"“concern tension surround great renaiss dam ethiopia, chad call brotherli govern egypt, ethiopia sudan continu priorit dialogu order reach negoti solut aegi african union.",1
0,"south africa reaffirm commit ideal spirit un charter, spare effort bring just, peac equit world.",1
0,"presid republic, strict agreement government, took advantag impact covid-19 establish econom recoveri plan, center people, reactiv nation economy, measur short, medium long term. mean stop loss job income.",1
1,"must note sever year belaru activ call resumpt broad dialogu intern security, aim overcom current contradict relat among states. dialogu would enabl return build effect global order base multilateralism.",1
1,"assess way forward achiev agre sustain develop goal 2030 midst global covid-19 pandemic, must also re-examin futur want unit nation need attain it. covid-19 devast lesson loudest possibl wake-up call need global cooperation, effect partnership firm commit multilater confront together. covid-19 recogn borders, nationality, gender econom statu nation individu — equal victims. therefore, unifi solut must found protect everi human it.",1
1,"intern compani illeg exploit azerbaijan’ natur resourc occupi territori face legal responsibility, don’t stop illicit activ immediately. azerbaijan alreadi start take legal action person compani illeg exploit natur resourc occupi lands.",1
0,"compel us intern commun embrac multilater effect way win battl best defens futur global threats, continu seek effect mean support small vulner nations.",1
2,"behalf govern people, may take opportun congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. wealth experi serv organ well, lead us agenda, particularli unpreced challeng times, world navig way global pandem caus covid-19. let assur solomon island support cooper tenur office.",1
2,"75 year exist unit nations, plenti reason proud of. result global cooper framework un, manag prevent major militari conflagr reduc human suffering.",1
0,"coronaviru pandem affect extent mani countri world. however, serious danger disadvantag region perspect ecology. unfortunately, plenti territori map imposs mention one speech. therefore, would like touch upon issue, highli relev central asian state nations. aral sea disaster.",1
1,"occas 75th anniversari unit nations, take opportun assess previou success failures. although unit nation abl solv global problem faced, becom clear multilater inclus prevent larg scale arm conflict, protect world arbitrari exercis power. therefor commit strengthen multilater system cooper framework unit nation order respond chang world situation, new global challenges, live expect new generation. unit nation desire, unit nation need.",1
1,"regard, strongli support vision ambiti reform agenda un secretary-general. albania convinc reform unit nation deliv integr system-wid approach achiev 2030 agenda make sure one left behind.",1
1,"five year ago, pari agreement climat chang signed. implement framework slow pace global warm give economi time adapt new technologies.",1
2,"presently, one activ laboratori confirm case covid-19 infection, despit re-open border june 1st, daili commerci flight north america europe, attempt earn revenu vital tourism sector protect live livelihoods.",1
1,"govern enhanc interconnected manag build 3,500 kilometr road numer larg bridg past five years. moreover, upgrad major port transport facilities, rang standard-gaug railway run central tanzania restor railway transport facil eastern corridor. mileston includ manufactur refurbish ship improv water transport connect area surround bodi water. govern also overseen procur 11 aeroplanes, eight oper commercially.",1
1,"el salvador, tri time clean hous regard problem lie ahead, but, thank god, see tangibl results. help friendli countries, succeed drastic lower insecur indicators, includ homicides, extort robberies, among others. administration, save averag nine live day murder — nine famili mourn death love one. thank god achiev much faster thought possible.",1
0,"region tragic histori dictatorships, oppress militari conflicts. despit difficult legaci still haunt region, signific progress made past two decades, larg thank cycl reform trigger ongo nato european union enlarg processes.",1
2,"build back better possibl right architectur place. us small island develop state especially, biggest threat global — notabl climat chang manag oceans. therefor solut must global, mean imper necessari intern architectur place. resourc address complex challeng becom scarcer, vulner countri ldc sid especi face daunt future. put simply, need fulli functional, work unit nations. need un agenc work solid partnership member states, multilater organizations. know problems, need find way fix these, creat even greater problem continu trend undermin multilater intern cooperation.",1
1,"however, middl east afflict major secur polit challeng undermin secur peopl stabil countries.",1
2,"covid-19 immedi crisis, climat chang remain singl greatest threat livelihoods, secur wellb pacif peopl long run. pacif island forum leader last year reaffirm commit kainaki ii declar urgent climat chang action now. share prosper secur blue pacif safe exist intern commun pursu effort limit global warm 1.5 °c.",1
1,determin combat covid-19 pandem must also inspir us fight effect climat chang safeguard biodiversity.,1
0,firmli believ collect commit need achiev swift effect implement pari agreement.,1
0,"outset, let sincer congratul assum presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. excellency, assur vanuatu’ commit support tenure, everi confid presid success guid us collect pursuit futur want, ralli spirit cooper essenti unit nation need.",1
0,"armenia carri ethnic cleans azerbaijani popul occupi territories. azerbaijani forcibl expel occupi territories. armenia commit number war crime crime human azerbaijani civilians. armenia establish criminal, terrorist puppet regim territori hide respons occup lands.",1
1,"manifest “perfect storm” undoubtedli derail limit progress posit make implement 2030 agenda, jeopardis abil meet sustain develop goal within agre timeframe. all, exact horrif toll million famili worldwid alreadi taken close million lives.",1
2,"mr. president, barbados’ recoveri econom social impact covid-19 pandem slow painful. resuscit economi balanc act reopen tourism-rel servic air travel, ensur popul remain safe. given import global tourism industry, firm view worker sector prioritis among frontlin worker earmark receiv approv vaccinations. would put hundr million peopl back work stimul largest global econom driver,",1
1,"second, need work togeth rebuild commun institutions. immedi term, need help lost famili members, lost livelihood educ interrupted. also consid way tackl inequ covid-19 expos case exacerbated. need build equit societies.",1
2,"crisi necessarili bring suffering. time, teach us use lesson help us develop stronger effect respons futur challenges. “new normal” futur social landscap look like depend sole generation, also youth new generations. togeth must creat space gener join hand collabor order plan futur want.",1
2,"indeed, pandem unpreced impact aspect human life. address global challeng requir recommit state effect multilater intern cooper central role unit nations.",1
2,determin combat covid-19 pandem must also inspir us fight effect climat chang safeguard biodiversity.,1
1,year celebr diamond jubile unit nation organization. gratifi continu make qualit differ live mani peopl throughout world. jubil sadli mar covid 19 pandem brought fore import uniti effect multilater cooper build futur want.,1
1,"must allow crisi becom excus suppress human right liberties. must make sure limit must proportionate, time-limit legal sound. principl must appli universally.",1
1,"unlimit support brother kingdom saudi arabia, made much progress implement riyadh agreement, aim establish stabil enabl us address regrett event took place provision capital, aden, august 2019. done utmost facilit implement agreement believ must pool effort ensur reconstruct development, auspic state. reiter trust brother kingdom saudi arabia continu implement agreement.",1
1,"let conclud reaffirm zimbabwe’ commit work better world. better way achiev peac andstabl world mutual respect, genuin multilater buttress much need reform respect intern law. recommit ideal pave way world yearn for.",1
2,"terrorist extremist group pose tremend challeng nation security, serious jeopard stabil countri differ regions.",1
2,"armenia countri oppos initi hold special session un gener assembl respons covid-19, wherea armenia, situat coronaviru desperate. armenia object initi azerbaijan launch it. object endeavor product irrat thought. anoth demonstr polici “azerbaijanophobia” prevail armenia promot government. hatr azerbaijani peopl instil young generation.",1
0,"second, need work togeth rebuild commun institutions. immedi term, need help lost famili members, lost livelihood educ interrupted. also consid way tackl inequ covid-19 expos case exacerbated. need build equit societies.",1
0,"albania strive make full use econom potential, align nation prioriti object 2030 sustain develop agenda nation strategi develop integration.",1
0,launch mitig protect strategi forestal advers effect climat chang especi vulner populations. urg intern cooper urgent implement pari agreement climat change.,1
1,cultur heritag azerbaijani peopl territori today’ armenia demolish plundered. armenia also destroy azerbaijani histor religi monument occupi territories. aim eras azerbaijani trace there.,1
2,"common accept multilater diplomaci underpin advanc three pillar unit nations, namely, sustain development, peac secur human rights, interlink mutual reinforcing, observ respect specif mandat charter unit nations.",1
1,"encourag welcom fact albanian factor continu support european euro atlant cours throughout region, strengthen time region cooper ownership ambiti projects.",1
2,"however, like innovation, digit technolog tend spread uncontrol and, like convent weapons, fall hand variou radic extremist region conflict zones, also quit prosper countries, thu engend enorm risks.",1
2,"throughout 75 year exist unit nations, common thread tapestri collect action recognit global challeng best overcom practic multilater base mutual respect trust. ever time demonstr true spirit global partnership reaffirm rules-bas commitments.",1
2,"despit government’ willing respect commit contain polit agreement, massiv violat intern humanitarian law human right continu perpetr civilian popul certain arm group signatori agreement. group also continu rearm illeg means, therebi undermin peac nation reconcili process, guarante social cohesion.",1
1,"concern apprehens respect flare-up violenc mozambican provinc cabo delgado, call greater intern commun involv fight tragic terrorist action region mozambique.",1
1,"origin “throwaway culture” gross lack respect human dignity, promot ideolog reduct understand human person, denial univers fundament human rights, crave absolut power control widespread today’ society. let us name is: attack human itself.",1
2,"urg intern commun continu seek new multilater approach facilit orderli debt restructur ensur increas access public policy, address pandem sustain inclus growth.",1
2,"need make progress mani areas. alreadi know want go, get alway complic part. want recogn work carri secretari gener reform develop system, contribut state made resolut propos improvement. however, undeni time lose, must build knowledg procedur work expert effici want respond commit charter obtain result peac security, right development.",1
1,"also launch develop bank solomon island aim provid sustain financi servic target develop rural areas, especi small medium enterpris primarili engag commerc industries.",1
2,"order address covid-19 pandemic, seneg launch econom social resili programm fund amount 1,000 billion cfa francs, $1.6 billion.",1
1,"call intern commun —especi secur council — assum legal respons oblig israel lift sieg gaza strip, put peac process back track credibl negoti base intern resolut force, address final statu issues, end occup within specifi time frame establish independ palestinian state within 1967 borders, east jerusalem capital, end isra occup arab territories.",1
2,massiv global econom restructur underway present world uniqu opportun pursu holist transform approach address numer escal global crise face make effici use resources.,1
2,"efforts, along intern partners, conven intra-afghan peac negoti began 12th month, doha, culmin success, ensu success depend afghan brother themselves. exert effort cooper intern commun facilit dialogue, hope peac stabil soon prevail across afghanistan, everyon decid complet renounc violence, accept diversity, differ equal citizenship country.",1
2,"iron countri repres today provid advic small island develop state increas resilience, take decis area significantli undermin efforts. secret greatest contributor climat crisi bear consequ proportionally, consequ incentiv decreas greenhous ga emissions.",1
1,"make unit nation work us all, call collect commit individual, communal, national, region global levels. pandem also demonstr weak classif develop levels, jeopard mani countries’ opportun access develop financ debt restructuring, among others. reveal need revis extend countries’ success develop beyond tradit measur gross nation income, fulli consid vulnerability, particularli crise experiencing. everi country’ need must consid isolation, tackl multilater context. help us collect commit bottom- multilater help us collect progress futur want unit nation need.",1
2,"“the intern community, particular un, must increas momentum doubl effort ensur develop african continent, greatest number least develop countri located, place centr intern prioriti concret action reflect commitment. increas involv un, whose leadership crucial ever renew commit stakehold make possibl provid decis impetu requir mobil resourc need achiev promis 2030 agenda support countri alreadi path achiev 17 sustain develop goals.",1
0,"nation, howev wealthy, surviv market dwindl sourc suppli decline.",1
1,"view prevent spread diseas today exert massiv effort increas necessari volum medic medic equip end time undertak effect measur cooper world health organization, countri develop partners.",1
0,"hope decad action deliv global goal help seek way sustain solut press global challenges, climat change, poverty, gender inequ financing.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem present existenti threat unmatch proport human health safeti around world. overwhelm health sectors, disturb global trade food suppli chains, crush travel leisur industri well disrupt basic livelihood peopl around world. alarmingli pandem intensifi vulner small economi render us suscept exogen shocks. further, covid-19 threaten revers gains, societi achiev toward attain sustain develop goal  sdg  targets.",1
1,"aggress azerbaijan, armenia continu face deep demographic, social econom crisis. regim chang happen armenia two year ago, fascist ideolog fail state remain unchanged.",1
1,"reiter import confront covid-19 effect multilater action, want recogn enabl econom financi support provid somali feder govern mitig worst covid-19 econom pressur intern financi institut mani multilater institut somalia success reach decis point attain debt relief mani major intern creditors. progress toward achiev debt cancel enabl econom reforms, remain cogniz somalia’ econom futur prosper peopl close interlink rest world. regard, futur want somalia one promot greater partnership intern trade, enhanc foreign direct invest key product sector potenti feed world develop human capit creat opportun us all. unit nation need inclus global multilater platform propel idea aspir chang realiz too. covid-19 econom challeng us sustain develop goal ever realized, world must recov better, all, together.",1
1,"pandem stark remind fate interconnect one secur everyon secured. pandem larg extent kept us restrict homes. consequently, econom activ greatli hamper along health systems. bangladesh achiev gdp growth rate 8.2 per cent fiscal year 2018-2019. covid 19 pandem imped econom progress.",1
2,"also spirit contribut peac stabil region, context challeng state face concern insert region find itself, countri commit process join asean, region block 600 million inhabitants.",1
0,"behalf peopl el salvador also express heartfelt thank countries, repres privat enterpris volunt throughout world help continu help us. help enabl us continu save thousand lives, term pandemic, also future. everi life save save togeth repres gener save — hundr thousand futur live stori preserv thank recent action. thank god give us opportun everyon help us that.",1
2,"convinc cooper unit nation region organ essenti instrument consolid secur develop world. alway concern multitud unresolv conflict black sea region, affect stabil cooper neighbourhood. continu promot cooper unit nation variou organ region, includ current chairman black sea econom cooperation.",1
2,"sao tome & princip prepar graduat categori medium- incom countri decemb 2024, fact proud, reflect recognit effort countri undertaken progress achiev key area sustain development.",1
0,"country, half popul young, extens work underway ensur everi young person take worthi place societi demonstr potential.",1
1,critic item today’ agenda. issu environment protect climat chang remain focu joint efforts.,1
0,"deep concern disregard intern law wit lately. view current situat necessari consolid effort aim strengthen role intern law, multilater legal instrument global secur system, strict complianc state gener accept norm deriv un charter. way could sustain stabil predict global polit mitig risk conflicts.",1
1,"social distancing, mask use sanit measures, deni viru opportun move amongst us.",1
2,"programme, incorpor sdgs, priorit health pharmaceut sovereignty, resili popul macroeconom financi stability.",1
1,"houthi militia, sent repres ndc, welcom developments. start time prepar coup d’etat country. began mobil forc ensur collaps town citi displac citizen home regions. even invad capital, sana’a, septemb 2014, took state institut hostag undermin elect legitimaci polit climate. suppress freedoms, raid hous blew school place worship. suppress dissent voic harass citizens. militia transform sana’a, citi steep history, civil tradit coexistence, great prison put peopl behind bars.",1
0,"covid-19 also shone new light exist global challeng conflicts, includ escal threat arm race terror  continu human right abus  climat chang  displac peopl  scourg non-communic disease, disrupt technolog revolut redefin futur work. around world see fallout pandem deepen commun divisions, escal geopolit tensions, chang trade relat threaten peace.",1
1,"order continu activ particip creat stabil security, albania present candidatur elect non-perman member secur council, mandat 2022-2023.",1
1,"theme time remind valu signific multilater ultim framework everlast solut exist emerg global challeng attained. indeed, world much safer secur place nation work togeth toward collect respons complex threat time.",1
2,would also enabl everyon 100 per cent digit compet help deriv advantag technolog corner world.,1
0,"behind turkey’ success stori lie effect govern mechan establish presidenti govern system, high capac develop infrastructur invest area health, qualifi human resources.",1
2,"conclud mr. president, would like reaffirm albania’ commit support reform reinvigor rule-bas order, unit nation centre. we, member states, must part uphold strengthen multilater system order benefit it.",1
0,"elimin menac terror necessit clear percept motiv root caus promot terrorism, well common global approach toward definit terrorism.",1
2,"well awar fact secur issu well problem discuss jubile un gener assembl call consolid effort basi valu unit us, share memori lesson history, spirit allianc guid anti-hitl coalit particip found possibl rais differ ideolog prefer sake victori peac nation earth.",1
1,"pandem also pinpoint seri ethical, technolog humanitarian matters. instance, advanc digit technolog help quickli reorgan education, trade services, well set distant learn onlin cours peopl differ ages. artifici intellig assist doctor make accur time diagnos find best treatment.",1
1,"nation, howev wealthy, surviv market dwindl sourc suppli decline.",1
2,"continu seek solut individu manner, result impasse. organ becom necessari ever foster kind collect action today’ global challenges.",1
1,"one hand, bosnia herzegovina final destin migrants, face problem sole due geograph proxim european union entri point migrants. hand, bosnia herzegovina understand posit within intern commun european secur area responsibly, also need stronger support european union, well entir intern community.",1
0,"“a landlock sahelian country, alreadi confront number crises, chad suffer full-on mani repercuss pandem variou level nation life. attend country’ nation prioriti upended, state’ limit resourc redirect deal first foremost health, humanitarian socioeconom emergencies.",1
0,"tajikistan 93 per cent territori cover mountains, bear loss equal hundr million dollar annual result water-rel disasters.",1
2,"planet profoundli distress covid-19 pandem caus new coronavirus, incalcul consequ health social econom terms.",1
0,"graduat categori least develop countri import mileston develop trajectori develop country. solomon island transit phase graduat schedul graduat 2024. however, time solomon island underw triennial review, pass vulner criterion. vulner becom glaringli obviou covid-19 exacerb preexist challeng face solomon island made pathway toward sustain graduat smooth transit extrem difficult.",1
2,"prior onset covid-19, young peopl alreadi three time like unemploy compar adult counterparts. pandem push global economi deeper crisis, young gener risk disproportion bear brunt mass unemploy under-protection.",1
2,"african continent, respons coronaviru swift effective. continent strategi fight pandem driven region econom communities. african union establish covid-19 respons fund launch ground-break african medic suppli platform ensur countri access necessari equip supplies.",1
2,"covid-19 close border neg impact global economy. solomon island exception, go difficult period, however, launch econom stimulu packag reset boost economy. let thank partner support econom initiative.",1
1,year 2020 rememb massiv groundswel push back frontier racism umbrella #blacklivesmatt movement.,1
0,"african continent, confront cruelti poverti endem cyclic natur scourges, also see worri spread disease. order counter that, african union implement control-and-prevent strategy, recommend africa centr diseas control prevention, cost whose implement alon estim $200 billion. also establish african medic suppli platform improv provis covid-19-rel medic equip supplies, access becom increasingli difficult owe strong market demand. regard, welcom partnership unit nation african union address challeng pose pandemic. countri believ secretary-general’ call leader group 20 adopt recoveri plan develop countries, well call debt suspens cancellation, result action taken.",1
0,"liber democracy, we’r also commit promot univers valu like human rights, gender equal rule law.",1
1,"year’ session gener assembl sixth held republ yemen endur difficult harsh circumst result war impos upon peopl houthi coup militia, back iran, region supporter. militia hatch plan follow execut gulf initiative, implement mechanism, coincid success hold comprehens nation dialogu conference, establish road map futur republ yemen, particip entir polit spectrum.",1
1,"yes, politicians, duti protect citizens. but, viru distinguish unilateralist multilateralists. covid-19 one safe, everyon safe. we, therefore, avoid form “vaccin nationalism”. develop vaccin becom new race moon.",1
0,"numer signific intern effort respond crise begin great promis — think two global compact refuge migrat — yet mani lack necessari polit support prove successful. other fail individu state shirk respons commitments. same, current crisi offer opportun unit nation help build fratern compassion society.",1
2,"introduc seri unpreced measur save live peopl mitig econom destruction,minimis unemploy secur workers’ incomes. ensur inclus approach factor specif need differ stakehold seychelles, consult privat sector, trade unions, civil societi inter-faith organis required.",1
2,"houthi militia, sent repres ndc, welcom developments. start time prepar coup d’etat country. began mobil forc ensur collaps town citi displac citizen home regions. even invad capital, sana’a, septemb 2014, took state institut hostag undermin elect legitimaci polit climate. suppress freedoms, raid hous blew school place worship. suppress dissent voic harass citizens. militia transform sana’a, citi steep history, civil tradit coexistence, great prison put peopl behind bars.",1
2,"continu confront problem world face  climat change, deterior health planet coronaviru  must rememb address collect action everi one us. old african proverb say ‘if wish go fast, go alone. wish go far, go together’. time us act collect address need everyon includ vulner among us! togeth togeth go far.",1
2,"govern expend enorm resources, spend high as, 8 per cent gdp, mitig impact public health crisis, amid extraordinari declin revenu foreign exchange.",1
0,"space months, covid-19 result 30 million confirm case covid-19, includ 900,000 deaths, accord latest offici world health organ statistics. health sector viru remain novelti mani scientif medic profession worldwid such, long-term health repercuss recov either unknown poorli understood.",1
0,"kigali amend montreal protocol, adopt four year ago, play major role reduc consumpt hydrofluorocarbons. half member state ratifi kigali amendment, force, call upon remaind ratifi soon possible.",1
1,"therefor firmli condemn unjustifi polit diplomat aggress burundi peopl foreign governments, known attempt regim chang 2015 unconstitut means. power diplomaci must give way mutual benefici respect cooperation.",1
2,"sever short- medium-term challeng need overcome. first, need defeat covid-19 together. need understand none us, nation larg small, safe us safe together. need global cooperation, less. ensur medic suppli scientif collabor continu flow across borders, need intensifi exchang inform infect protocols, hope resum semblanc “normal” life, includ resumpt intern travel, safely.",1
0,"promot protect human right core polici argentin state sinc 1983. decis result ratif grant constitut statu exist intern human right instruments, well activ particip region intern levels.",1
2,"accordingly, order contribut restor environ improv country’ environmental, social econom situation, novemb 2017 govern republ burundi launch ewe burundi urambay project significantli reduc effect deforestation.",1
2,"given experi countri gain counter terrorism, extrem illeg drug traffick view introduc tajik peac experi determin nomin first time tajikistan’ candidaci non-perman seat un secur council 2028-2029.",1
1,"topic year’ debat remind us import multilater found princip unit nations. firmli believ joint actions, mutual harmon respect, answer found face global challeng ongo pandem communic diseas covid-19.",1
1,"throughout past 75 years, unit nation member state relentlessli overcom global challenges. year, world face health crisi spread covid-19 wide affect live condit peopl well econom social system — overshadow special natur 75th anniversari unit nations. indeed, great challeng shall litmu test faith multilater uniti member state provid sustain solut overcom threat.",1
0,"one hand, bosnia herzegovina final destin migrants, face problem sole due geograph proxim european union entri point migrants. hand, bosnia herzegovina understand posit within intern commun european secur area responsibly, also need stronger support european union, well entir intern community.",1
0,"uniti human needs, requir function multilater system respect democrat principl sovereignty, particip consent  reject bulli doctrin exclusion, imposit abus econom sanctions.",1
2,"however, middl east afflict major secur polit challeng undermin secur peopl stabil countries.",1
1,"need make progress mani areas. alreadi know want go, get alway complic part. want recogn work carri secretari gener reform develop system, contribut state made resolut propos improvement. however, undeni time lose, must build knowledg procedur work expert effici want respond commit charter obtain result peac security, right development.",1
1,"april 2016, armenia launch large-scal militari attack azerbaijan. result attack, 6 azerbaijani civilians, includ one child killed, 26 civilian wounded.",1
2,"therefor firmli condemn unjustifi polit diplomat aggress burundi peopl foreign governments, known attempt regim chang 2015 unconstitut means. power diplomaci must give way mutual benefici respect cooperation.",1
1,"“the revis format year’ gener debat perfect illustration, needed, scale upheav world caus covid-19 pandemic, unfortun continu rage. invis relentless enemi caus enorm human damage, also profound impact aspect econom social life, put nation global respons capac test.",1
0,call intern commun support govern effort address econom challeng polici plan strengthen nation currenc view ensur household stability. intern commun allow houthi manipul humanitarian aid blackmail govern loot fund earmark payment salaries. continu undermin unit nation effort regard.,1
0,"mani situat need consid observ transvers manner  gender equality, attent children young people, particip protect elderly, non-discrimin peopl disabilities. realiti present, uncertainti futur experi past shown us need teach valu invest effort ensur school abl appli meet increasingli greater demands. success societi base growth human capit educ training.",1
2,"magnitud public health emerg requir unpreced mobil resources. govern institutions, civil social organ invest great energi fight covid-19. however, first respons heroic effort come health professionals. therefore, would like take advantag gener debat unit nation vindic work. demonstr profession value, also shown immens human quality, because, unfortunately, viru often depriv us contact accompani person near us, necessari moment difficulty. however, spite all, men women health servic provid constant support peopl famili live adversity.",1
2,"wetlands, area larger mani european countries, california, face problems. larg fire inevit consequ high local temperatur coupl accumul decay organ matter.",1
0,it’ messag serv power antidot rise intoler violent extrem undermin peac security.,1
0,"uruguay develop nation climat chang respons plan, address risk prevention, mitig adaptation.",1
0,theme chosen 75th session gener assembl pertin current moment experienc world. convinc multilater best way us combin effort togeth mitig effect econom financi crisi covid-19 pandem impos world.,1
0,"global crise like covid-19 pandem provid opportun renew challeng overcome. seen devast health econom impact viru feel live pain results. nation, matter well resourced, immune. yet, despit common suffer pain, fear covid-19 has, continu to, exacerb alreadi exist gulf developed, develop fragil state make un family. someth must avoid cost tackl today’ major global challenges, includ insecurity, climat change, poverti increas inequality, driver much divis discont across world, depend effect cooper multilater action bring sustain develop goal fruition.",1
0,"covid-19 immedi crisis, climat chang remain singl greatest threat livelihoods, secur wellb pacif peopl long run. pacif island forum leader last year reaffirm commit kainaki ii declar urgent climat chang action now. share prosper secur blue pacif safe exist intern commun pursu effort limit global warm 1.5 °c.",1
1,"viet nam pursu foreign polici independence, self-reliance, multilater diversif relations. reliabl partner active, respons member intern community, viet nam attach import work un expand comprehens cooper organization. viet nam work member state make un democratic, transpar effective.",1
1,"next step way becom withdraw unlaw militari format armament occupi territories, return control state border, and, finally, restor territori integr ukrain within intern recogn borders.",1
1,"iranian regime, line hostil attitude, target oil facil kingdom last year blatant violat intern laws. so, assault intern peac secur prove disregard stabil global economi secur oil suppli intern markets. iranian regim also continues, surrogates, target kingdom, launching, date, 300 ballist missil 400 arm drone  uav  stark violat unsc resolut 2216  2015  2231  2015 . experi iranian regim taught us partial solut appeas stop threat intern peac security. comprehens solut firm intern posit requir ensur fundament solut iranian regime’ attempt obtain weapon mass destruction, ballist missil program, interfer intern affair countries, sponsorship terrorism.",1
1,"small island develop states, includ tonga, contribut one percent global greenhous ga emissions, unfortun continu bear brunt climat injustice. result, pacif island countri continu imperil mani tropic cyclon unpreced magnitud destruct nature. recent one tropic cyclon harold april year wreak havoc four pacif island nations, namely, fiji, solomon islands, vanuatu, country, tonga. grappl distress effect covid-19 outbreak.",1
1,"“in regard, import continu work strengthen coher goal activ initi support g-5 sahel order respond effect challeng produc tangibl result ground term secur development.",1
0,"regard covid-19 pandemic, led unpreced global crisis, liter claim hundr thousand lives, affect million peopl threaten erod eye progress alreadi made implement sustain develop goal 2030 agenda sustain develop agenda 2063 african union.",1
0,"unit kingdom also insist unjustifi excess militari presenc islands, bring tension region character peac intern cooperation.",1
1,"also discuss corpor turn 70,000 megawatt wind, 220,000 megawatt solar renew energy, therebi becom hub renew energi green industri region.",1
0,"convinc cooper unit nation region organ essenti instrument consolid secur develop world. alway concern multitud unresolv conflict black sea region, affect stabil cooper neighbourhood. continu promot cooper unit nation variou organ region, includ current chairman black sea econom cooperation.",1
0,"finally, could fail express appreci mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, competence, selflessness, zeal led organization.",1
0,"seychel agre need intern solidar cooper ever face worst human econom crisi lifetime, multilater work develop develop countries.",1
1,"development, ten year remain acceler action achiev sustain develop goal  sdg  2030. however, covid-19 pandem one key factor delay achievement. must, therefore, work harder, cooper closer promot develop path peopl centre. must also priorit particip stakehold emphas util technolog development.",1
2,"commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation year, fit note institut made great progress area peacebuilding, respect human right promot truli sustain development, despit prejudic overcome. one organization’ major achiev area promot peac security, peacekeep oper help save mani live restor stabil secur world plagu conflict emerg threat terror violent extremism. peacekeep operations, one major troop-contribut countri togo activ participant, enhanc improv time. right occas welcom fact move resolut increasingli toward prevent multidimension approach.",1
2,"conclusion, unit nation famili nation compris membership must work togeth renew partnership confront covid-19. must also continu engag posit creat inclus prosper futur want unit nation need. regard, we, somalia, reaffirm commit multilater overcom common global obstacl capit everi opportun creat better, safer equal world.your excellencies,",1
1,"framework covid-19 response, first case diseas diagnosed, 6 march, togo set crisi committee, person chair presid republic, nation coordin response, manag committe scientif committee. view disease’ long-term socioeconom impact, govern also launch nation solidar econom recoveri fund total 400 billion cfa francs, approxim $665 million. measur taken involv prevent social distancing, case detection, compulsori wear mask educ awareness-rais among population. also shut variou area country, establish curfew, close borders, school univers ban gatherings.",1
0,"conclud mr. president, would like reaffirm albania’ commit support reform reinvigor rule-bas order, unit nation centre. we, member states, must part uphold strengthen multilater system order benefit it.",1
0,"armenia, attack azerbaijani territori july, prove biggest obstacl last peac stabil south caucasus.",1
1,call intern commun support govern effort address econom challeng polici plan strengthen nation currenc view ensur household stability. intern commun allow houthi manipul humanitarian aid blackmail govern loot fund earmark payment salaries. continu undermin unit nation effort regard.,1
2,"covid-19 pandem demonstrated, more, global challeng requir common action, solidar cooperation. must show commit “a quantum leap collect engagement”, mention secretary-general. multilater also essenti har opportun build back better greener, toward inclus sustain economies, societi „no one left behind”. order achiev that, must continu reform un, make effective, effici fit purpose. unit nation need!",1
0,"concern apprehens respect flare-up violenc mozambican provinc cabo delgado, call greater intern commun involv fight tragic terrorist action region mozambique.",1
1,"part, govern continu empow uplift poor varieti poverti erad programmes. programm equip enabl beneficiari start micro small scale enterpris better survival. programm uplift beneficiari poverti sustain incom generation, creation sustenance.",1
1,"talks, afghan peopl clear urgent priority: ceasefire. urgent end violenc will, anyth else, give us chanc progress.",1
1,"addition, also in-countri test capacity. possibl assist people’ republ china australia, may add manifest theme. said, put place standard oper procedur differ sector guid us deal global pandemic. object two-fold. number one prioriti protect countri keep viru breach borders. second object keep economi afloat. confid viru breach border contain manag quarantin stations.",1
2,"current situat world becom complicated, volatil turbul background grow geopolitical, geo-econom competit extens modern threat challenges, particularli spread coronaviru disease.",1
2,"unit nation world econom situat prospect  wesp  mid 2020 report, confirm leader commun experienced, pandem unleash health econom crisi unpreced scope magnitude.",1
1,"violenc warfar also evolved, evolut afghan wit suffer real time. living, dying, insid 5th wave global terrorism, global terrorist network close link global crimin networks, make warfar total unconvent peace-build even challenge.",1
0,"likewise, multilater institutions, world trade organis  wto , need reform well. wto neutral arbit intern trade disput mandat monitor enforc intern agre trade laws. singapore, strong support rule base multilater trade system, believ valu wto, brought decad prosper us. however, wto’ rule design agricultur manufacturing- base world economy, today urgent need reform. world need appropri rule services, especi digit servic intellectu property, prepar digit age unfold front us.",1
2,75th anniversari unit nation fall moment uncommon peril peopl planet. covid pandem claim nearli one million live push hundr million unexpect hardship. time doubt hesitation. tool meet test prevail. mark import anniversari year.,1
0,"similar context, countri express deep concern regard turkey’ militari interfer libya, alarm part region interfer arab affair exacerb humanitarian crisis, undermin effort reach peac solution, destabil entir region. therefore, countri support repeat call immedi ceasefir libya call upon parti commit polit process auspic unit nation build outcom berlin conference. sinc outbreak conflict libya, countri call peac polit solut crisi order achiev last secur stability.",1
2,"anoth action remov doubt may convict commit fight climat chang area role play head pro tempor secretariat ibero-american summit period two year motto “innov sustain development- object 2030”. joint declar adopt environ minist environ confer 16 septemb last, one high point presid allow us build environment agenda among 22 member state ibero-american conference.",1
2,"also launch develop bank solomon island aim provid sustain financi servic target develop rural areas, especi small medium enterpris primarili engag commerc industries.",1
0,"cooper un secur council au peac secur council contribut improv peac secur darfur region sudan, south sudan, somalia, mali central african republic.",1
1,"compel us intern commun embrac multilater effect way win battl best defens futur global threats, continu seek effect mean support small vulner nations.",1
2,unit nation remain best hope provid polit necessari commit avoid existenti threat mani small state un family.,1
2,"see today ruthless escal militias, particularli governor ma’rib, al-jawf al-bayda, houthi militia engag indiscrimin militari campaign sever months. attack residenti area ballist missiles, concern whatsoev civilian live million displac peopl fled region militia’ control. terrorist militia repeatedli target civilian civilian infrastructur kingdom saudi arabia. clearli demonstr true intent view peace.",1
1,"1 million villag health volunt throughout countri play vital role patients, regardless nationality, guarante equal access medic treatment. furthermore, royal thai govern also fulli support strategi covid-19 vaccin development. thailand start vaccin research programm sinc quit time also foster collabor intern partners. regard, urg covid-19 vaccin medicin consid ‘global public goods’ access all. unit nation must play import role matter.",1
2,"nuclear deterrence, particular, creat etho fear base threat mutual annihil  way, end poison relationship peopl obstruct dialogue. import support princip intern legal instrument nuclear disarmament, nonprolifer prohibition. holi see trust forthcom review confer parti treati non-prolifer nuclear weapon  npt  result concret action accord joint intent “to achiev earliest possibl date cessat nuclear arm race undertak effect measur direct nuclear disarmament”.",1
1,"also thank state peopl japan, without whose help would never abl establish largest hospit region one advanc largest hospit treat coronaviru diseas world. forev grate deep admir govern great peopl japan, societi exemplifi give servic world.",1
1,close profession coordin joint effort medic scientif commun around world necessari ever fast victori pandemic.,1
2,"situat continu without appropri respons intern community, mani countries, like mine, unabl pay exist debt qualifi new borrowings.",1
1,"pandemic, indeed, call us “to seiz time trial time choosing, time choos matter pass away, time separ necessari not”. repres concret opportun conversion, transformation, rethink way life econom social systems, widen gap rich poor base unjust distribut resources. hand, pandem occas “defens retreat” greater individu elitism.",1
2,"yet, success common effort somalia mean unscathed. accord offici statistics, 3,000 somali infect viru around 100 tragic lost live result. mani diagnos live pain suffer covid-19 other still remain vulner given weak somalia’ overstretch health system infrastructure.",1
0,"origin “throwaway culture” gross lack respect human dignity, promot ideolog reduct understand human person, denial univers fundament human rights, crave absolut power control widespread today’ society. let us name is: attack human itself.",1
0,"see partner stakehold nation intern level one key factor acceler implement 2030 agenda. middle-incom country, belaru believ separ un strategi promot sustain develop — line similar document group develop countri — necessari success achiev sustain develop goal categori states.",1
2,"“the covid-19 crisi laid bare common weak and, time, demonstr need enhanc collect effort better understand overcom global challeng benefit everi one us. opportun great famili nations, celebr seventy-fifth anniversari organ current particular context, reaffirm central place unit nation primordi role multilater intern relations.",1
1,"appreci support provid unit nation offic counter- terror partners, enhanc capac botswana’ newli establish counter terror analysi fusion agenc order enabl us mitig exposur menace.",1
2,kosova establish solid constitut legal framework provid unpreced protect right minor cultur heritage. fulli line often exce relev european acqui term human right protection.,1
1,"hope start yield posit result follow endeavour domest economi reform, conduct context appli harsh measures, tough impact live people, come true soon due current constraint disrupt product chain, affect price main export commodities, paralys servic vital sector economy, give rise high unemploy rate alarm social situation.",1
2,bold drastic measur commonli undertaken within intern law avoid doubl standard polici recogn yet anoth import factor tackl challenges.,1
1,"thankfully, still confirm suspect case covid-19 vanuatu. earli border closur gave us preciou window prepar health responses, also come seriou econom social costs. top that, april, countri hit yet anoth severe, categori five tropic cyclone. sever compound disast alreadi left endur scar families, commun nation. limit resourc strain ongo recoveri effort previou disasters. ever loom threat futur disast extrem weather events, fuell exacerb climat change. even so, experi assur us work together, recover, build back better emerg stronger resilient.",1
2,"feel just, call end embargo suffer peopl govern cuba. solidar cuban scientists, doctor health professionals, fight covid-19, deserv respect admiration.",1
1,"also welcom hold summit biodiversity, take place next week. express commit promot strategi practic sustain use biolog divers natur resources, develop mechan improv manag use.",1
1,"economi weakens, insuffici respons intern commun debt reschedul access concession financing, unemploy poverti growing.",1
2,"second, need work togeth rebuild commun institutions. immedi term, need help lost famili members, lost livelihood educ interrupted. also consid way tackl inequ covid-19 expos case exacerbated. need build equit societies.",1
2,"action includ build capac small island develop state cope recov extern shock pandem like covid-19, form disasters, impact climat change.",1
1,"cooper un secur council au peac secur council contribut improv peac secur darfur region sudan, south sudan, somalia, mali central african republic.",1
1,"crisi trigger covid-19 profound impact daili live mani families, countri exception. sens respons duti feel toward fellow citizen led govern andorra review road map envisag legislature, develop action plan base convict decis make must increas potenti countri move toward develop preserv sustain medium long term.",1
2,"adopt sustain develop agenda 2030 well pari climat chang agreement key step face biggest challeng today — global econom instability, grow social inequ climat chang effects.",1
2,"75 year foundation, unit nation face difficult challeng history. must stop pandem succeed work together, collect effort requir renew stronger multilater cooperation.",1
1,"“at time world face coronavirus, terror continu rage ground africa, particularli lake chad basin sahelo-saharan region, claim innoc victim daili basi serious compromis develop effort countri region.",1
0,"“chad’ nation develop plan, firmli support donor round tabl held pari 2017, seen expect result owe low level anticip resources. therefore, order support govern effort promot sustain development, honour pledg financ effort crucial chad, current prepar second nation develop plan.",1
0,"mind, address three major topics. first, speak imper find collect unit respons global health emerg brought covid-19 pandemic.",1
1,"order address covid-19 pandemic, seneg launch econom social resili programm fund amount 1,000 billion cfa francs, $1.6 billion.",1
2,"conclusion, un need must ensur effect multilater mobil stakeholders, governments, financi busi sectors, academia civil society. order find sustain solut current global challenges, must hear voic society, women girls, youth children, well peopl vulner situations.",1
2,"prospect achiev sustain develop hing heavili safeti secur people. global pandem unfortun exacerb threat pose illicit traffick small arm light weapons, piracy, traffick person cybercrimes. given ardent desir free societi effect preval unregul small arm light weapons, trinidad tobago remain fulli commit arm trade treati  att  view indispens address menac illicit arm trade.",1
2,"includ reconsid role econom financi institutions, like bretton-woods, must respond rapidli grow inequ super-rich perman poor. econom model encourag subsidiarity, support econom develop local level invest educ infrastructur benefit local communities, lay foundat econom success also renew larger commun nation. would renew appeal",1
2,"way, celebr un’ next milestone, 100th anniversary, would achiev 100 per cent literaci rate, empow everyon relev skill knowledg meaning life.",1
1,"base firm belief resolv disput peac means, grace god thank him, state qatar’ mediat effort culmin sign peac agreement unit state taliban movement, doha, 29 february, 2020, abl make exchang prison govern afghanistan taliban movement success discuss held doha last month.",1
2,"sierra leon reiter commit multilater effort gear toward total elimin coloni form manifestation, support adopt decad plan action. remain true fundament principl unit nation fit purpose, becom absolut necessari releg chapter coloni histori within period 2021- 2030. global paradigm engagement, partnership, multilateralism, mutual respect aspir view peopl must prevail.",1
2,"decis establish “green corridors” region use one, enabl smooth transport assistance, without delay border administr cross points.",1
0,"rare unit nation multilater test test year un’ 75th anniversary, year world grappl covid-19 pandemic.",1
0,"covid-19 brought solomon island closer partners. made new friends, latest “philippin red cross”, fantast work test look student manila. grate excel work red cross continu nationals.",1
1,"untold sorrow afghan people, particularli women children, last 40 years, serv remind relev un charter, also unfulfil promise, “maintain intern peac security.”",1
2,"cannot overemphas urgenc action protect sustain use world’ ocean, sea marin resources. however, action meaning effect deriv science-bas innov inform data. support proclam unit nation decad ocean scienc sustain develop 2021-2030 provid overarch framework allow ocean scienc support countri sustain develop ocean.",1
1,"slowdown econom activ area privat sector caus unpreced increas unemploy prompt activ unemploy benefit programm self-employ assist programme, well social safeti programmes, includ nation food distribut program, largest feed program nation’ history.",1
0,"“the revis format year’ gener debat perfect illustration, needed, scale upheav world caus covid-19 pandemic, unfortun continu rage. invis relentless enemi caus enorm human damage, also profound impact aspect econom social life, put nation global respons capac test.",1
1,"includ reconsid role econom financi institutions, like bretton-woods, must respond rapidli grow inequ super-rich perman poor. econom model encourag subsidiarity, support econom develop local level invest educ infrastructur benefit local communities, lay foundat econom success also renew larger commun nation. would renew appeal",1
2,"coronaviru pandem chang situat world entirely, result, new realiti emerged. initially, viru expect affect develop nations. however, pandem signific impact develop nation well. show viru recogn borders. mutual support joint effort overcom pandemic.",1
0,"prior onset covid-19, young peopl alreadi three time like unemploy compar adult counterparts. pandem push global economi deeper crisis, young gener risk disproportion bear brunt mass unemploy under-protection.",1
2,"success avert crisis, need respons leadership. ultim respons govern polit leader make decis base fact knowledge, polit calcul selfish interest power. opposit — incompetence, disinform popul — fatal consequences.",1
0,"again, success respons would possibl without effect partnership government, citizen intern partners. want pay special tribut courag duti health personnel risk live save others. also recogn patienc contribut somali privat sector, work govern keep economi functioning, provid vital servic somali peopl critic hour need.",1
2,"2019 difficult year albania. struck two power earthquakes, left 50 peopl dead billion us dollar damages.",1
1,"coronaviru pandem signific neg impact cours direct global economi serious undermin global community’ effort achiev sustain develop goals. context, look forward intensifi cooper aim restor econom trade relations. today necessari creat platform put global economi sustain growth trajectory. opinion, energy, transport, industri trade becom key areas.",1
2,"seen digit take giant step matter weeks, also seen telework becom norm educ non-presential, oblig million peopl becom technolog literate. also seen crack appear process  reconsid valu system care elderly, main victim viru  must rememb telework bring better work-lif balanc home space appropri adequ  seen distanc learn highlight deep inequ among famili cannot access services, suffer overexposur inform which, apart reduc human contact, sometim creat manipul unsaf environments.",1
1,"regard libyan issue, reiter welcom ceasefir agreement activ polit process accord skhirat agreement outcomes, achiev comprehens polit settlement maintain libyan sovereignty, territori integr independence, stem bloodsh peopl preserv wealth. benefici understand imposs impos militari regim forc libya.",1
2,"argentina manag seal major deal almost privat extern creditors, becom one first countri meet challeng debt restructur pandemic.",1
0,"1 million villag health volunt throughout countri play vital role patients, regardless nationality, guarante equal access medic treatment. furthermore, royal thai govern also fulli support strategi covid-19 vaccin development. thailand start vaccin research programm sinc quit time also foster collabor intern partners. regard, urg covid-19 vaccin medicin consid ‘global public goods’ access all. unit nation must play import role matter.",1
2,"goal may achiev develop countri mobil establish fund invest aid africa use investor interest busi african continent, may produc good servic local consumpt export.",1
0,"commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, proper reflect are, come going. unit nation stood lofti ideal build intern system collabor common purpose. system allow us collect call account choos conflict peace, recogn digniti equal worth people. valu everi one us input make toward end.",1
0,"however, success must blind us fact organ still face mani challenges. activ intern cooper intern solidar help us deal effect successfully. yet banish spectr war arm conflict forms. nowaday conflict taken new form, driven non- state actor amorph network fuel terror religi extremism, includ countri sahel region central africa. moreover, climat change, especi destruct weather event recent seen africa, migrat crisi challeng organ must meet bold sustain respons achiev ideal found on.",1
1,"2019, brazil victim crimin seepag venezuelan oil, sold without proper control, result seriou damag environ major loss fish tourism industries.",1
0,"one job seychel offer worker made redund covid-19, example, plant hundr thousand tree across islands. measur keep call world’ scientist protect natur environ costs. restor planetari health balanc human ecolog wellbeing.",1
1,"light high mortal level devast effect disease, high rate spread, must continu use mechan multilater offer us term intern solidarity, order intensifi combat disease, deter loss human lives, relaunch econom develop process countries.",1
1,"however, like innovation, digit technolog tend spread uncontrol and, like convent weapons, fall hand variou radic extremist region conflict zones, also quit prosper countries, thu engend enorm risks.",1
1,"govern expend enorm resources, spend high as, 8 per cent gdp, mitig impact public health crisis, amid extraordinari declin revenu foreign exchange.",1
1,new technolog artifici intellig alreadi becom backbon daili live keep busi essenti public servic running.,1
0,"must allow crisi becom excus suppress human right liberties. must make sure limit must proportionate, time-limit legal sound. principl must appli universally.",1
0,"also spirit contribut peac stabil region, context challeng state face concern insert region find itself, countri commit process join asean, region block 600 million inhabitants.",1
1,"urg intern commun continu seek new multilater approach facilit orderli debt restructur ensur increas access public policy, address pandem sustain inclus growth.",1
2,"surinam focu strongli gener invest busi opportunities. mainli reason administr develop act widest implement sdg number 17, promot facilit clean corrupt free public privat partnership  ppp .",1
2,"let us recal concess made quest peac past five years. commit month ago — alongsid brother coalit support yemeni legitimacy, led kingdom saudi arabia — establish unilater ceasefir support effort mr. martin griffith last comprehens ceasefir would allow polit process resumed. however, effort regrett fail obstinaci houthi terrorist militia sponsor iranian regime. even wors militia took opportun mobil attack governor cities, caus massacr among civilian sever region citi yemen.",1
1,"truth, extrem level uncertainti make futur difficult predict, tri address question answer would simple.",1
0,"economic, trade, financi embargo impos cuba mani year ago continu be, view, anoth caus major concern. reason, sao tome & princip reiter call sanction lift order allow cuba face challeng econom social develop without constraint impos unfair sanction take better advantag opportun trade relat equal foot member state organization.",1
2,"polit militari conflict persist central african republic, eastern provinc democrat republ congo, south sudan, libya, sahel, emerg terrorist groups, action terrorist group el chebab east africa boko haram central west africa.",1
0,"cannot overemphas urgenc action protect sustain use world’ ocean, sea marin resources. however, action meaning effect deriv science-bas innov inform data. support proclam unit nation decad ocean scienc sustain develop 2021-2030 provid overarch framework allow ocean scienc support countri sustain develop ocean.",1
0,"order continu activ particip creat stabil security, albania present candidatur elect non-perman member secur council, mandat 2022-2023.",1
0,"support intern community, includ sever countri repres here, privat sector, civil societi intern academ community, key restor public debt sustainability.",1
1,"hard over-emphasis open, rules-bas multilater trade system foundat sustain global recovery. system allow countri trade good servic mutual benefici ways. rais hundr million peopl poverty. aftermath covid-19, look way support strengthen system make work better future. also need rebuild safe reliabl transport network facilit resumpt peopl mobility.",1
1,"third, breach contractu oblig export critic good movement peopl erod trust nations.",1
0,"however, like innovation, digit technolog tend spread uncontrol and, like convent weapons, fall hand variou radic extremist region conflict zones, also quit prosper countries, thu engend enorm risks.",1
2,"year ago gener assembly, mention urgent need chang format said fail so, assembl would becom irrelevant. subsequently, format gener assembl chang slightly, changed. chang caus histor pandemic, changed. result change? assembl becom even irrelevant. year becom irrelev relev even discussed.",1
1,"afghanistan, experi adapt digit revolut wield sourc econom opportun overwhelmingli young population, well way strengthen system govern rule law. look far ahead knowledg tri replic 19th 20th centuri model now, becom irrelev soon stabil them.",1
2,"context, would also like recal one outstand histor figur unit nation — nobel peac prize laureat former secretary- gener dag hammarskjold, whose 115th birthday commemor year. consid one inspir tireless promot concept prevent diplomacy. dag hammarskjold, die crisi manag mission hotspot, believ mutual respect dialogu honest negoti among parti potenti conflict earli stage could prevent war igniting.",1
2,"outset, let sincer congratul assum presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. excellency, assur vanuatu’ commit support tenure, everi confid presid success guid us collect pursuit futur want, ralli spirit cooper essenti unit nation need.",1
0,"countri also continu call peac settlement disputes. context, reiter uae’ firm posit legitim right sovereignti three islands: greater tunb, lesser tunb, abu musa, occupi iran flagrant violat intern law un charter, total disregard histor record clearli affirm uae’ ownership island island arab rule sinc ancient times. therefore, uae give demand iran return island right owners. countri call iran peac resolv issu direct negotiations, intern court justice. however, iran answer calls.",1
2,"covid-19 brought solomon island closer partners. made new friends, latest “philippin red cross”, fantast work test look student manila. grate excel work red cross continu nationals.",1
1,covid crisi expos weak vulnerabilities. alreadi brink poverti left poor. difficult access health care found helpless. limit access educ lost hope better future. even stabl develop state face great econom social difficulties.,1
0,"regard burundi’ presenc secur council’ agenda, alway said burundi unfairli includ secur council’ agenda polit reason self-interest certain powers, noth welfar burundian peopl way whatsoev pose threat intern peac security.",1
2,"achiev success battl terror extremism, must intensifi joint effort face challeng comprehensively. includ combat financ terror extremism. kingdom support mani intern entiti contribut reinforc joint effort combat challenge. kingdom support un counter-terror center contribut $110 million establish global center combat extremist ideolog  etid  riyadh. kingdom also host intern terrorist financ target center.",1
1,"increas invest purpos infrastructur gener econom product improv standard living. construct resurfac roads, expand access carbon-neutr energi off-grid locations, extend ict penetration, improv access potabl water sanit facilities.",1
1,"like countries, temporarili close border regul movement peopl limit spread covid-19. prioriti was, alway be, protect live ensur safeti within borders. temporari closur border caus one largest declin visitor number sinc advent modern tourism bahamas.",1
1,"respect, san marino welcom strateg prepared respons plan address immedi health needs, produc who, global humanitarian respons plan eas impact 63 highli vulner countries, un covid-19 respons recoveri fund, socioeconom respons recoveri middle- lower-incom countries. republ san marino support un secretary-general’ call global cease-fire, issu 23 march, urg war parti corner world pull back hostilities. moreover, countri join secretari general’ global call emphas need end violenc women everywhere, includ home.",1
1,"last year, organ albania region conference, “religion instrument peace”, collabor us state department, aim advanc religion freedom fundament human right issue.",1
2,"covid-19 becom defin crisi time. global death toll continu rise, global economy, trade, travel sever disrupted. million job hundr thousand live lost.",1
2,"five year ago, pari agreement climat chang signed. implement framework slow pace global warm give economi time adapt new technologies.",1
0,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations, need strengthen resolv ensur one left behind. ensur equal particip everi individual, irrespect gender sexual orientation, essenti realis 2030 agenda.",1
1,"must lose sight unceas struggl poverty. view, greatest scourg humanity, main caus famine, soil degradation, unbridl exploit natur resources, arm conflicts, popul displacements, south-north migratori flow continu toll human lives.",1
0,"nuclear deterrence, particular, creat etho fear base threat mutual annihil  way, end poison relationship peopl obstruct dialogue. import support princip intern legal instrument nuclear disarmament, nonprolifer prohibition. holi see trust forthcom review confer parti treati non-prolifer nuclear weapon  npt  result concret action accord joint intent “to achiev earliest possibl date cessat nuclear arm race undertak effect measur direct nuclear disarmament”.",1
1,"convinc today need comprehensive, systemat purpos multilater cooper problem danger viral diseases, full launch scientif diplomaci channels. regard, turkmenistan propos consid develop establish appropri intern instruments.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem deepen crise african continent. tunisia stress commit continu work african brother intern partner achiev sustain comprehens develop overcom challeng face together. context, reiter support silenc gun africa. initi ongo effort need greater intern support order african contin free conflict focu construct development.",1
2,"social econom impact pandem felt mani year come. recov long costli process, especi vulnerable. global solidarity, effect intern cooper polit commit critic sustain respons recov build back better.",1
1,"south africa reaffirm commit ideal spirit un charter, spare effort bring just, peac equit world.",1
2,"seychel agre need intern solidar cooper ever face worst human econom crisi lifetime, multilater work develop develop countries.",1
2,"untold sorrow afghan people, particularli women children, last 40 years, serv remind relev un charter, also unfulfil promise, “maintain intern peac security.”",1
1,"unit nations, within current world context, portray realiti total differ one basi establishment, seek reflect within intern structur characterist geopolit realiti nowaday order render organ abl safeguard balanc global interests.",1
0,pandem taught us urgent lesson: longer ignor drivers.,1
2,"sahel, example, terror violent extrem found fertil ground, result death toll, destruct infrastructur looting, therebi maintain environ fear. backdrop polit institut instability, poverty, exclusion, porou border illiteracy, among others.",1
1,"despit mount global threats, uae believ transform unpreced challeng great opportun unit effort build intern institut capabl cope current emerg challenges. past month proven confront intern threat requir take collect action wise leadership forg coordin intern respons address implic threats.",1
0,"five year ago, pari agreement climat chang signed. implement framework slow pace global warm give economi time adapt new technologies.",1
2,disrespect natur caus climat chang neg impact humankind. destruct ecosystem biodivers link new diseas covid-19 illustration.,1
0,"continu confront problem world face  climat change, deterior health planet coronaviru  must rememb address collect action everi one us. old african proverb say ‘if wish go fast, go alone. wish go far, go together’. time us act collect address need everyon includ vulner among us! togeth togeth go far.",1
2,"“the whole world current experienc devast covid-19 pandemic, abil deal vari country. develop countries, particularli african ones, owe multipl structur weaknesses, expos advers consequ scourge.",1
0,"think alarm situat amazon indigen peoples. see environment crisi insepar link social crisis, care environ call integr approach combat poverti exclusion.",1
2,"must seiz opportun un’ 75th anniversari present current covid-19 pandem reinvigor rules-bas multilater system. chanc collect recreat condit inclus econom growth envis 2030 agenda sustain development. need strengthen collect abil respond futur shocks, covid-19 clear present exampl shock, need abl respond multilater system.",1
0,covid-19 pandem strongli confirm need necess exist strengthen role unit nations. relev forum must never questioned.,1
2,"sudan continu activ contribut support stabil polit secur situat countri african continent, especi countri region, activ membership region organ african union, igad, intern confer great lake region, sahel sahara. occasion, would like express appreci great posit role african union play confront coronaviru pandem africa.",1
0,use tenur promot intern peac secur advoc peac settlement disput inclus dialogue.,1
0,"would like express government’ gratitud unit nations, member state intern organ consider assist provid develop countri gener benin, particular, design implement strategi respond pandemic. thank combin efforts, spread viru limit country, meant benin’ rate spread death rate low.",1
0,express hope talk serv bring peac stabil long-suff land afghanistan.,1
1,"turkmenistan strongli believ futur un continu strengthen build strateg partnership organization, therebi make contribut unlock inexhaust potenti interest global peace, secur progress.",1
2,"state society, demonstr commitment, compass courag take hard decis start direct peac talk taliban. won’t enough. sustain afghanistan, must get root terror problem blight region address global phenomenon, threat, is.",1
1,"conclusion, un need must ensur effect multilater mobil stakeholders, governments, financi busi sectors, academia civil society. order find sustain solut current global challenges, must hear voic society, women girls, youth children, well peopl vulner situations.",1
1,"term econom stimulus, govern launch programm anim impact sector economi includ extens $7.25-million line credit micro, small medium enterpris  provis wage subsidi promot employe retention, provis $5-million special line credit tourism stakeholders. also launch econom recoveri strategi rest 5 pillar namely: support busi recovery, creat busi climat growth, improv govern efficiency, strengthen product sector agriculture, grow emerg economy.",1
0,"albania’ osc chairmanship 2020 tangibl demonstr steadfast commit promot intern peac secur dialogu multilater co-operation, time rais tension polarisation.",1
2,"digit technolog central almost everi aspect respons pandem prerequisit achiev sdgs. develop use digit technologies, includ artifici intelligence, base ethic principles, must human-centred. promot protect human rights, democracy, good governance, account rule law must provid offlin online. thu need univers polit commit digit security. un galvan digit cooper global level contribut mobil actor ensur open, secur afford access digit infrastructur all.",1
1,"order prevent loss reput intern organizations, must first review mentality, institut rules.",1
0,"also discuss corpor turn 70,000 megawatt wind, 220,000 megawatt solar renew energy, therebi becom hub renew energi green industri region.",1
1,"unit nation play pivot outstand role overse polit transit process yemen, ongo sinc 2011. accord gulf initi implement mechanism, start transit period. nation govern form presidenti elect took place. nation dialogu confer held particip strata yemeni society. new yemeni constitut draft accord outcom dialogue. suppos subject referendum yemeni peopl adopt allow elect held line new constitution. however, houthi coup d’etat disrupt transit process led war peopl yemen.",1
1,"deliv nation address via video link may emblemat extraordinari time, it’ also sign resolv adapt make use available. so, even though moment abl travel togeth person, continu find way har collect commit vision end pandem reset planet sustain peac footing.",1
0,"let us recal concess made quest peac past five years. commit month ago — alongsid brother coalit support yemeni legitimacy, led kingdom saudi arabia — establish unilater ceasefir support effort mr. martin griffith last comprehens ceasefir would allow polit process resumed. however, effort regrett fail obstinaci houthi terrorist militia sponsor iranian regime. even wors militia took opportun mobil attack governor cities, caus massacr among civilian sever region citi yemen.",1
1,disarma vital import ensur global peac security.,1
0,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nation midst global pandem — pandem place enorm pressur societies, commun families. would like express deepest condol live lost.",1
2,"south africa reaffirm commit ideal spirit un charter, spare effort bring just, peac equit world.",1
1,"disput differences, time misunderstand even distrust part colleagues, consist advanc constructive, unit initiatives, first arm control strengthen treati regim exist area. includ prohibit chemical, biolog toxin weapons.",1
2,"therefore, rostrum call enhanc cooper strengthen collect action mechan that, together, may face challeng pose spread covid-19 pandemic. must strive achiev session’ theme: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",1
0,"govern enhanc interconnected manag build 3,500 kilometr road numer larg bridg past five years. moreover, upgrad major port transport facilities, rang standard-gaug railway run central tanzania restor railway transport facil eastern corridor. mileston includ manufactur refurbish ship improv water transport connect area surround bodi water. govern also overseen procur 11 aeroplanes, eight oper commercially.",1
1,"thank measur undertaken, country’ situat covid-19 remain control. citizens’ life health prioriti us, despit econom difficulti caus pandemic.",1
1,"notabl climat change, undoubtedli greatest threat common future. expert estimate, 2100 climat chang five time deadli covid-19. abl organ creat 20 parallel team worldwid develop anti-covid vaccine, lack much need knowledge. climat change, know do. need show genuin act together, one. make real priority. let science, innovations, also solidar compass lead way.",1
2,"end, propos establish perman un commiss afghanistan would address concern long-suff afghan people.",1
2,"order strengthen mitig adaptation, govern develop climat chang respons polici nation adapt plan. work civil society, academia, intern partners, acceler implement commit pari agreement.",1
1,"across world, economi size sever impact covid-19 vulner affect most. somalia, like everywher els world, challeng pain contract economy, job loss need continu invest essenti basic public servic protect citizen deadli virus. appreciate, huge task recov post-conflict state like somalia govern remain steadfast rise respond divers challeng lie ahead.",1
1,"“chad call arm movement join process order achiev comprehens last peace, sudanes peopl greatli need.",1
0,"twenty-f year ago, world confer women beij chart transform agenda gender equality, continu guid us. empower women made us safer wealthier. true gender equal still attain country.",1
1,"twenty-f year ago, world confer women beij chart transform agenda gender equality, continu guid us. empower women made us safer wealthier. true gender equal still attain country.",1
2,"intern compani illeg exploit azerbaijan’ natur resourc occupi territori face legal responsibility, don’t stop illicit activ immediately. azerbaijan alreadi start take legal action person compani illeg exploit natur resourc occupi lands.",1
1,it’ messag serv power antidot rise intoler violent extrem undermin peac security.,1
2,"elimin menac terror necessit clear percept motiv root caus promot terrorism, well common global approach toward definit terrorism.",1
0,"shape share futur direct fulfil promis us take unpreced act cooper coordin action level global village’ community, economi governance.",1
2,"also hope, because, ever, seen flourish valu solidar empathy, sincer recognit health healthcar professionals, sens civil respons popul favor common interest, well increas ecolog awareness.",1
0,"also express admir gratitud doctors, paramedics, nurses, technic staff, volunteers, work selflessli mani month save live health peopl differ part world.",1
2,"solv crises, especi arab region, requir take unifi intern position. posit reject violat sovereignti state interfer intern affairs. posit seek un led polit solut address threat pose terrorist group houthis, da’esh, al-qaeda muslim brotherhood. context, unit arab emir reiter support secretary-general’ appeal global ceasefire.",1
2,"violenc warfar also evolved, evolut afghan wit suffer real time. living, dying, insid 5th wave global terrorism, global terrorist network close link global crimin networks, make warfar total unconvent peace-build even challenge.",1
0,"pandem expos vulner today’ world highlight broad divid nation global develop efforts, high level poverti inequality, rage climat chang continu discrimin elderly, poor communities, women girls, erod social cohesion.",1
1,"achiev success battl terror extremism, must intensifi joint effort face challeng comprehensively. includ combat financ terror extremism. kingdom support mani intern entiti contribut reinforc joint effort combat challenge. kingdom support un counter-terror center contribut $110 million establish global center combat extremist ideolog  etid  riyadh. kingdom also host intern terrorist financ target center.",1
1,"context, wish note revolut govern hasten remov restrict obstacl hinder deliveri humanitarian aid need conflict areas. within framework, part nation plan improv humanitarian action ensur need popul met, state adopt project find sustain solut improv live condit displac persons, accord provis intern instrument law govern humanitarian work",1
1,call intern commun make seriou urgent commit end immin catastroph surround fso safer oil tanker. houthi militia refus grant unit nation access oil tanker repair maintenance.,1
2,"1.	encourag widespread use renew energi sources, would facilit friendli environ “green” economi development.",1
1,"fear insecur seiz people, health system weaken socio-econom fabric total shaken, caus loss million jobs. march 21, first posit case confirm country. first state emerg decreed, citizen alreadi took action.",1
2,"first, modern suppli chain complex. extrem difficult complet onshor product key item sinc materi expertis elsewher alway need multipl step process. mani countri experienc disrupt flow essenti good lockdowns. suppli chain base “just-in-time” effici review basi “just-in-case”.",1
1,"build back better possibl right architectur place. us small island develop state especially, biggest threat global — notabl climat chang manag oceans. therefor solut must global, mean imper necessari intern architectur place. resourc address complex challeng becom scarcer, vulner countri ldc sid especi face daunt future. put simply, need fulli functional, work unit nations. need un agenc work solid partnership member states, multilater organizations. know problems, need find way fix these, creat even greater problem continu trend undermin multilater intern cooperation.",1
2,"promot protect human right core polici argentin state sinc 1983. decis result ratif grant constitut statu exist intern human right instruments, well activ particip region intern levels.",1
0,power imbal caus world lose equilibrium.,1
1,"feel just, call end embargo suffer peopl govern cuba. solidar cuban scientists, doctor health professionals, fight covid-19, deserv respect admiration.",1
2,"keen interest botswana also support given countri special situat least develop countri  landlock develop countri  small island develop state vulner categori unit nation member states. landlock country, botswana has, pandem experienc challeng cross-bord movement good servic due border closures.",1
2,"decarbon remain central effort combat impact climat change, help build resili small vulner economi societies. need clean afford energi energi efficiency, renew electrification. pari agreement’ 2020 commit updat ndc develop low emiss develop strategi remain critical. synerg covid19 recoveri effort acceler transit decarbon build resilience.",1
0,"go talk multilater count everyone, must deliv equit recoveri prioritis innovation, science, health, wellbeing, opportun liveabl environ countri societies.",1
0,"requir involv everybody, public authorities, civil societi privat initiative, scienc knowledge, inspir sustain develop goal principl human right lie core actions.",1
2,"12 juli 2020, armenia perpetr anoth provoc along state border. militari servicemen 76-year-old civilian kill due artilleri bombard azerbaijan’ tovuz district, extens damag done civilian infrastructure.",1
1,"also success defeat menac global terror effort brave arm forc collabor amisom intern partner make world safer place. confid government’ effort continu support import intern partners, somalia confront covid-19 contribut posit multilater effort requir make world better, resili equal place all.",1
2,immens effort need contrast health emerg global econom contract result unpreced structur challeng country. succeed re-establish previou level wealth health intern solidar tremend effort peopl,1
1,"goal may achiev develop countri mobil establish fund invest aid africa use investor interest busi african continent, may produc good servic local consumpt export.",1
2,"keep repeat statement terror constant danger stabil prosper across world one main threat intern peac security. unfortunately, some, many, act statements. relev secur council resolut yet find way un archiv implementation. joint action haven’t risen meet threat pose terrorism. contrary, invest in, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorist one region anoth one countri another, servic suspici agendas.",1
2,"reiter import confront covid-19 effect multilater action, want recogn enabl econom financi support provid somali feder govern mitig worst covid-19 econom pressur intern financi institut mani multilater institut somalia success reach decis point attain debt relief mani major intern creditors. progress toward achiev debt cancel enabl econom reforms, remain cogniz somalia’ econom futur prosper peopl close interlink rest world. regard, futur want somalia one promot greater partnership intern trade, enhanc foreign direct invest key product sector potenti feed world develop human capit creat opportun us all. unit nation need inclus global multilater platform propel idea aspir chang realiz too. covid-19 econom challeng us sustain develop goal ever realized, world must recov better, all, together.",1
2,"global family, collect commit multilater effect tackl covid-19 pandem meaning address prevail univers challeng poverty, hunger, diseases, natur disasters, climat change, terrorism, human right violations, cybersecurity, transnat organ crime.",1
1,climat chang effect anoth type violenc suffer people. afghanistan 17th worst affect countri world.,1
0,"“in regard, import continu work strengthen coher goal activ initi support g-5 sahel order respond effect challeng produc tangibl result ground term secur development.",1
0,"turbul global environment, assum toxic irrespons extern debt specul purpos mean anoth wave delay underdevelopment.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem come prove act coordination, respons share effici manner thu satisfactori result achieved.",1
0,"iranian regime, line hostil attitude, target oil facil kingdom last year blatant violat intern laws. so, assault intern peac secur prove disregard stabil global economi secur oil suppli intern markets. iranian regim also continues, surrogates, target kingdom, launching, date, 300 ballist missil 400 arm drone  uav  stark violat unsc resolut 2216  2015  2231  2015 . experi iranian regim taught us partial solut appeas stop threat intern peac security. comprehens solut firm intern posit requir ensur fundament solut iranian regime’ attempt obtain weapon mass destruction, ballist missil program, interfer intern affair countries, sponsorship terrorism.",1
0,"believ global strateg collabor complimentari financi — econom approach required. achiev closer partnership imf, world bank wto.",1
2,"sinc last quarter 2017, bosnia herzegovina face enorm problem illeg migrations, significantli worsen year. due close remain migrat routes, major migrant come far middl east head toward countri european union territori bosnia herzegovina, pose enorm secur humanitarian problem, counti enough resourc solv it.",1
1,"occasion, reiter firm stanc state qatar way end syrian crisi polit solut base geneva communiqu  1 , implement secur council resolut 2254  2015 . state qatar also affirm continue, intern community, support effort realiz justic hold account perpetr atrocities, war crime crime human commit syria.",1
1,"must lose sight fact stimulu packag aim rescu economi coronaviru crisi determin shape global economi — financi stable, social inclus low-carbon economi — year come.",1
0,"crisi trigger covid-19 profound impact daili live mani families, countri exception. sens respons duti feel toward fellow citizen led govern andorra review road map envisag legislature, develop action plan base convict decis make must increas potenti countri move toward develop preserv sustain medium long term.",1
2,"liber democracy, we’r also commit promot univers valu like human rights, gender equal rule law.",1
0,"whilst deal pandem global proportions, solomon island continu battl increment effect climat chang neg impact livelihoods, secur wellb solomon islanders. climat chang result chang weather pattern caus anomali weather event epic proportions. additionally, climat chang result warm global temperatur melt ice cap caus sea level rise. sea level rise abnorm weather event wreak havoc infrastructur home mention threaten food secur lives. earlier year, experienc traumat effect tropic cyclon harold. allow thank develop partner step assist us disaster.",1
0,also use transform power digit prepar econom prescript surviv crisis.,1
0,"intern compani illeg exploit azerbaijan’ natur resourc occupi territori face legal responsibility, don’t stop illicit activ immediately. azerbaijan alreadi start take legal action person compani illeg exploit natur resourc occupi lands.",1
1,"solv crises, especi arab region, requir take unifi intern position. posit reject violat sovereignti state interfer intern affairs. posit seek un led polit solut address threat pose terrorist group houthis, da’esh, al-qaeda muslim brotherhood. context, unit arab emir reiter support secretary-general’ appeal global ceasefire.",1
0,"goal may achiev develop countri mobil establish fund invest aid africa use investor interest busi african continent, may produc good servic local consumpt export.",1
2,"success joint concert action aim prevent resolut conflicts, explor peac way address crise confrontations, first foremost depend effect use prevent diplomaci mediation.",1
2,connect would like call unit nation intern region organ support tajikistan expedit glacier central asia.,1
2,"social protect health system cardin strengthen mitig neg effect pandem  target support provid population, sector economi businesses.",1
0,"success depend strengthen institutions, nation international, includ work scientists, innovators, creators. question funding. posit human valu citizen govern invest institutions, must accountable.",1
0,"current crisi also demonstr solidar must empti word promise. also shown us import avoid everi temptat exceed natur limits. “we freedom need limit direct technolog  put servic anoth type progress, one healthier, human, social, integral”. also need taken care consider discuss complex issu artifici intellig  ai .",1
0,"session therefor take place extrem unusu context world disrupt ever. human tragedi result put multilater test urg us act resolut togeth halt scourge. welcom choic theme session gener assembly, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — address covid-19 effect multilater action”. mani ways, theme emblemat overal environ anxiety, compel us unit solidar determined. covid-19 pandem requir immens sacrific us, success halt crisi depend willing unit effort counter pandem prevent popul fall back extrem poverty. unfortun fact covid-19 pandem slow effort meet sever sustain develop goals, includ area health, hunger decent work. therefor imper intern commun adopt concerted, global coher approach respond appropri pandemic. regard, commend initi secretary-gener who, begin pandemic, launch global respons unit nation system address pandem guid state safeguard advers consequ pandemic.",1
2,"turbul global environment, assum toxic irrespons extern debt specul purpos mean anoth wave delay underdevelopment.",1
1,massiv global econom restructur underway present world uniqu opportun pursu holist transform approach address numer escal global crise face make effici use resources.,1
0,"sao tome & princip prepar graduat categori medium- incom countri decemb 2024, fact proud, reflect recognit effort countri undertaken progress achiev key area sustain development.",1
0,"truth, extrem level uncertainti make futur difficult predict, tri address question answer would simple.",1
1,"current threaten complex situat prove state peopl world interconnect regular dialogue, trust close cooper among us extrem important.",1
0,"million peopl around world lost job livelihood pandemic. social dialogu workplac help mitig impact pandem shape solutions. need sustain transit global labour market, issu work close presid south africa, cyril ramaphosa, co-edit ilo report futur work. sweden invit countri join global deal partnership decent work inclus growth.",1
1,"african continent, confront cruelti poverti endem cyclic natur scourges, also see worri spread disease. order counter that, african union implement control-and-prevent strategy, recommend africa centr diseas control prevention, cost whose implement alon estim $200 billion. also establish african medic suppli platform improv provis covid-19-rel medic equip supplies, access becom increasingli difficult owe strong market demand. regard, welcom partnership unit nation african union address challeng pose pandemic. countri believ secretary-general’ call leader group 20 adopt recoveri plan develop countries, well call debt suspens cancellation, result action taken.",1
1,"theme 75th gener assembl call us, member state unit nations, come togeth frame futur want. vanuatu, extraordinarili difficult year backdrop start next phase nation building, mark independ celebr culmin ldc graduat months. hope share experi contribut global learn navig current crisi work togeth pursuit sustain peac sustain development. emerg grip covid-19, continu align nation global recoveri exist commit reorient growth model one sustain greener nature.",1
2,"stronger multilater essenti want build fair, peac societies, young peopl live dignity, women opportun men, minor vulner group protected.",1
1,"however, success must blind us fact organ still face mani challenges. activ intern cooper intern solidar help us deal effect successfully. yet banish spectr war arm conflict forms. nowaday conflict taken new form, driven non- state actor amorph network fuel terror religi extremism, includ countri sahel region central africa. moreover, climat change, especi destruct weather event recent seen africa, migrat crisi challeng organ must meet bold sustain respons achiev ideal found on.",1
0,"despit mount global threats, uae believ transform unpreced challeng great opportun unit effort build intern institut capabl cope current emerg challenges. past month proven confront intern threat requir take collect action wise leadership forg coordin intern respons address implic threats.",1
2,togeth close cooper realiz dream aspir afghan people.,1
0,centr develop people. substanti advanc human capac need improv educ healthcare. result product societi higher incom better standard living.,1
2,"pandemic, indeed, call us “to seiz time trial time choosing, time choos matter pass away, time separ necessari not”. repres concret opportun conversion, transformation, rethink way life econom social systems, widen gap rich poor base unjust distribut resources. hand, pandem occas “defens retreat” greater individu elitism.",1
0,"celebr 25th anniversari 4th world confer women 1 st octob year, gratifi highlight zimbabw taken major step implement beij declaration. includ adopt gender respons constitution, establish zimbabw gender commission, enact sever piec legisl outlaw practic infring right women girl forc child marriag discrimin women inherit matters. govern also set women’ bank facilit access financ women-own busi projects.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem coupl signific decreas energi price precipit acceler effort aim diversif economy. respect, alloc resourc increas invest agricultur tourism sector recognis need build resili area incentives, policies, programm public privat partnerships. additionally, engend invest agricultur inevit lead reduct demand certain import foods, preserv limit financi resourc achiev food-secur nation. also continu encourag particip women agri-business, agricultur tourism remain seiz fact women undertak role ensur famili receiv nutrit need healthi sometim breadwinners.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem is, apart human toll, turn food suppli chain upsid down, paralys economi erod consum purchas power.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem decim economi exacerb poverty, also shown us interconnect interdepend world is, must work togeth respond effect challeng confront us today.",1
2,"kigali amend montreal protocol, adopt four year ago, play major role reduc consumpt hydrofluorocarbons. half member state ratifi kigali amendment, force, call upon remaind ratifi soon possible.",1
2,"multilater system advanc interest small states. larg nation also benefit act multilater institut gain polit legitimacy. benefit peaceful, stabl prosper global environment. multilater institut provid avenu countri pool idea work togeth deal common challeng face humanity, includ covid-19 now, also essenti us advanc share interests.",1
1,centr develop people. substanti advanc human capac need improv educ healthcare. result product societi higher incom better standard living.,1
2,"must lose sight fact stimulu packag aim rescu economi coronaviru crisi determin shape global economi — financi stable, social inclus low-carbon economi — year come.",1
2,5.	the deliveri comprehens financi technic assist develop countri intern organ develop least develop countri monitor preserv glacier sourc water.,1
2,"space months, covid-19 result 30 million confirm case covid-19, includ 900,000 deaths, accord latest offici world health organ statistics. health sector viru remain novelti mani scientif medic profession worldwid such, long-term health repercuss recov either unknown poorli understood.",1
0,"year ago gener assembly, mention urgent need chang format said fail so, assembl would becom irrelevant. subsequently, format gener assembl chang slightly, changed. chang caus histor pandemic, changed. result change? assembl becom even irrelevant. year becom irrelev relev even discussed.",1
1,"careful, event year continu fractur multilater may dilut global develop aspirations. triumphantli sign five year ago 2030 agenda 17 sustain develop goals. ever must return collect commit redoubl implement efforts. vanuatu alreadi contextu global goal nation aspirations, articul vanuatu 2030 — people’ plan. year sought ensur nation recoveri strategi respond immedi social, econom environment need associ covd-19 cyclon harold, empow us build back better continu advanc develop aspirations. must keep move forward revert back before. increas frequenc extrem weather event disast mean recoveri becom new normal.",1
0,"solomon island present first ever voluntari nation review report implement agenda 2030 juli year. despit technolog challenges, abl highlight achiev made date. solomon island continu see increas number children enrol formal educ system. secondly, proud establish nation financ framework develop underpin financ implement sustain develop goals.",1
2,"make unit nation work us all, call collect commit individual, communal, national, region global levels. pandem also demonstr weak classif develop levels, jeopard mani countries’ opportun access develop financ debt restructuring, among others. reveal need revis extend countries’ success develop beyond tradit measur gross nation income, fulli consid vulnerability, particularli crise experiencing. everi country’ need must consid isolation, tackl multilater context. help us collect commit bottom- multilater help us collect progress futur want unit nation need.",1
0,"despit government’ willing respect commit contain polit agreement, massiv violat intern humanitarian law human right continu perpetr civilian popul certain arm group signatori agreement. group also continu rearm illeg means, therebi undermin peac nation reconcili process, guarante social cohesion.",1
0,"grow broad support common african posit evid recent intergovernment negoti member state express affirm call correct histor injustic done africa. vein, would like encourag assembl address long-stand injustic adopt africa’ demand outlin ezulwini consensu sirt declaration. look forward construct engag build progress made past order achiev comprehens reform secur council session.",1
1,"context endeavor prepar appropri condit reach peac respond econom humanitarian difficulti face brother palestine, we, coordin intern partners, continu provid humanitarian development aid cater urgent longterm need besieg gaza strip, addit increas contribut unrwa.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem is, apart human toll, turn food suppli chain upsid down, paralys economi erod consum purchas power.",1
0,"prevent genocid unwav prioriti armenia. nation endur horrors, moral respons human preserv memori victim genocid contribut effort intern commun prevent recurr horrend crimes.",1
0,climat chang effect anoth type violenc suffer people. afghanistan 17th worst affect countri world.,1
0,"let' make lesson covid-19 basi action future. like 75 year ago, lesson two world war led univers commit among nation solv disput peac work together.",1
1,"outset, would like extend sincerest congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session un gener assembly, wish success fulfil duties.",1
0,"context, wish note revolut govern hasten remov restrict obstacl hinder deliveri humanitarian aid need conflict areas. within framework, part nation plan improv humanitarian action ensur need popul met, state adopt project find sustain solut improv live condit displac persons, accord provis intern instrument law govern humanitarian work",1
1,"key factor behind thailand’ achiev pandem control role model effect healthcar manag determin polit develop robust healthcar system univers health coverag scheme. recognis healthi popul import forc drive nation develop toward security, prosper sustainability. regard, thailand share knowledg experi interest countri foreign polici global health  fpgh  initiative.",1
1,"let us recal concess made quest peac past five years. commit month ago — alongsid brother coalit support yemeni legitimacy, led kingdom saudi arabia — establish unilater ceasefir support effort mr. martin griffith last comprehens ceasefir would allow polit process resumed. however, effort regrett fail obstinaci houthi terrorist militia sponsor iranian regime. even wors militia took opportun mobil attack governor cities, caus massacr among civilian sever region citi yemen.",1
0,"covid-19 close border neg impact global economy. solomon island exception, go difficult period, however, launch econom stimulu packag reset boost economy. let thank partner support econom initiative.",1
2,"assembl aware, sudan undergo transit phase follow gloriou popular revolut injustice, tyranni socioeconom decline. transit govern address broad aspir sudanes peopl tri utmost tackl new challeng import establish peac econom reform.",1
1,"linger palestinian caus without solution, israel’ continu settlement creation pretext ground without deter pose biggest question mark credibl intern commun institutions.",1
2,covid-19 pandem quickli becom truli global threat. far over. alreadi learn lesson: cannot go back busi usual.,1
1,"also applaud adoption, assembl secur council, variou covid-19-focus resolut well initi secretary-gener antonio guterr aim promot global solidar cooper fight covid-19 address impact live livelihood long term.",1
1,"“i would like acknowledg leadership excel mr. matamela cyril ramaphosa, presid republ south africa chairperson african union, well african union commission. abl put continent strategi place respond pandem take time measur aim pool medic suppli member states, safeguard african economi research vaccin covid-19, inter alia.",1
0,"end, polit process initi auspic unit nations, also syrian-own syrian-led, brought success conclusion.",1
2,"particularli appreci organization’ effort includ civil societi privat sector, part solut economic, social environment issu arise, inclus sustain develop requir particip entir society.",1
1,"“in addit incalcul health human toll, pandem left indel mark global economy. across world, countri suffer sudden shock economies. beyond immedi challeng current crisis, need greater focu recoveri epidemic. impact covid-19 mitig act immedi collectively. applaud effort variou intern region organizations, unit nations, world health organization, movement non-align countries, african union  au , commonwealth, intergovernment author develop  igad  east african commun  eac , among others, deal pandemic.",1
2,"must advanc principl green circular economies, sake environment sustain opportun job creation econom growth.",1
1,"persist violent extrem must continu receiv attent detriment equal import challeng human existence, reflect sustain develop goals, combat poverty, climat change, sea piracy, among others.",1
0,public kept inform viru talk back show covid-19 oversight committee. also inform public weekli address nation broadcast live air televised. ensur peopl kept inform step govern undertak protect country. govern continu focu build necessari health infrastructur within hospit prepar accommod person may contract virus.,1
1,"coronaviru pandem affect extent mani countri world. however, serious danger disadvantag region perspect ecology. unfortunately, plenti territori map imposs mention one speech. therefore, would like touch upon issue, highli relev central asian state nations. aral sea disaster.",1
2,speech would complet without strong appeal get rid weapon all. pose existenti threat life planet caus tremend human suffering.,1
0,"also essenti consid conduct cooperation, adopt multidimension approach goe beyond per capita incom determin elig criteria offici develop assist  oda . 60 per cent poor live middle-incom countries. serv countries, demonstr solidar understand real progress built everyon involved, make littl steadi progress achiev sustain develop goals.",1
2,call intern commun make seriou urgent commit end immin catastroph surround fso safer oil tanker. houthi militia refus grant unit nation access oil tanker repair maintenance.,1
1,"2030 agenda sustain develop goal stipul that, “there sustain develop without peac peac without sustain development”. achiev sustain intern peac security, must put end occupation. adher norm principl intern law implement un secur council resolut must ensured.",1
1,"75 year exist unit nations, plenti reason proud of. result global cooper framework un, manag prevent major militari conflagr reduc human suffering.",1
0,"pandem addit emphas need close intens intern cooperation, wherebi un special agenc organizations, like world health organization, irreplac role organ respons newli occur challeng health nature, also socio-economic, polit secur dimension.",1
2,launch mitig protect strategi forestal advers effect climat chang especi vulner populations. urg intern cooper urgent implement pari agreement climat change.,1
2,"coronaviru pandem affect extent mani countri world. however, serious danger disadvantag region perspect ecology. unfortunately, plenti territori map imposs mention one speech. therefore, would like touch upon issue, highli relev central asian state nations. aral sea disaster.",1
2,"turn multilater theme debat  multilater recognis crucial globally-coordin respons covid-19 us emerg pandem resilient, hopefully, compassionate.",1
0,"convinc today need comprehensive, systemat purpos multilater cooper problem danger viral diseases, full launch scientif diplomaci channels. regard, turkmenistan propos consid develop establish appropri intern instruments.",1
1,"sudan, despit chang caus blood martyr decad oppression, injustic backwardness, despit achiev made brief span gloriou revolution, transit period still face number daunt challeng must overcom continu support intern commun friend order complet implement government’ plans. aim address econom hardship countri go through, foremost among waiv sudan’ debt grant soft loans, well commit friend fulfil pledg announc sudan partnership confer berlin. that, name sudan must remov list countri sponsor terrorism, countri return fulli intern commun forc interrupt three decades. context, wish commend recent step taken us administr us congress support transit government, includ determin acceler step drop sudan list terrorist countries.",1
1,"though face multipl challenges, collective, press forward, slowly, steadily, forg agre system rule norm better, stronger, transpar consist ever before. result intern order overseen unparallel advanc human liberty, attain digniti amongst peoples, given rise prosper global economi sought uplift billion peopl poverty.",1
2,"hope decad action deliv global goal help seek way sustain solut press global challenges, climat change, poverty, gender inequ financing.",1
0,ensur countri left behind reiter posit african union econom sanction zimbabw sudan lift allow govern respond adequ pandemic. also call suspens interest payment africa’ extern public debt.,1
0,"sinc join un 1955 austria proud honour contribut areas. whether 60 year peacekeeping, member — current presid — human right council. austria continu part readi assum responsibilities. particular reason, candid un secur council 2027-2028 hope support.",1
2,"terror remain one promin challeng face world pose real threat intern peac security, imped achiev sustain develop peoples. state qatar spare effort activ particip intern region effort address phenomenon tackl roots, especi support educ million children, youth women creat job opportun young men.",1
2,"firmli believ mutual cooperation, harmon posit mutual respect, global respons face modern plagu found.",1
2,reason problem exist region today one-sid step taken greec greek cypriot sinc 2003 maximalist demands.,1
1,"space months, covid-19 result 30 million confirm case covid-19, includ 900,000 deaths, accord latest offici world health organ statistics. health sector viru remain novelti mani scientif medic profession worldwid such, long-term health repercuss recov either unknown poorli understood.",1
2,"favor resolv issu iran’ nuclear program take account intern law, diplomaci dialogue.",1
2,"romania remain firm support multilater rules-bas intern order, un core. romania commit cooper safer futur all, promot sustain development, respect human rights, peac security. futur want!",1
2,"worthi note that, pre-covid-19 beliz contend econom declin caus ongo climat impact prolong drought impact primari sector output, along continu challeng caus sargassum inund marin spaces. septemb 4, hurrican nana struck us inflict anoth blow beleagu agricultur sector.",1
2,"peac environ indispens address pandemic, must recommit dialogue, peac disput resolut rule law order allevi suffer bring hope vulner populations.",1
1,"within framework, instruct head state, govern launch 500 billion cfa franc invest plan period 2020 2024 ensur health-car system’ resili sustainability.",1
2,"pandemic, highest emphasi place food production. time, taken measur ensur adequ suppli nutrit people. special arrang made keep industri run proper market agricultur product industri output full complianc health guidelines. consequently, health sector economi still compar better shape. despit covid-19-induc stagnat global industri outputs, gdp regist growth rate 5.24 per cent, expect 7 per centin next fiscal year.",1
1,"also respons intern commun stop bloodsh yemen, continu five years, stop humanitarian crisis.",1
2,"think key condit polit stabilization, social econom recoveri afghanistan, success integr global economi implement larg infrastructur project afghanistan’ involv primarili vital sector energy, transport communications.",1
2,"concern apprehens respect flare-up violenc mozambican provinc cabo delgado, call greater intern commun involv fight tragic terrorist action region mozambique.",1
2,"however, success must blind us fact organ still face mani challenges. activ intern cooper intern solidar help us deal effect successfully. yet banish spectr war arm conflict forms. nowaday conflict taken new form, driven non- state actor amorph network fuel terror religi extremism, includ countri sahel region central africa. moreover, climat change, especi destruct weather event recent seen africa, migrat crisi challeng organ must meet bold sustain respons achiev ideal found on.",1
0,"persist violent extrem must continu receiv attent detriment equal import challeng human existence, reflect sustain develop goals, combat poverty, climat change, sea piracy, among others.",1
1,"“the highli relev theme session, ‘the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action’, fulli underlin import must attach intern cooper multilater irreplac mean address major common challeng pandemics, climat change, terrorism, poverti inequality, name few.",1
2,"coronaviru outbreak led recess area nation economy, includ obstruct invest operations, foreign direct invest inflow, domest foreign trade, tourism services, particularli transport sector.",1
0,"must lose sight unceas struggl poverty. view, greatest scourg humanity, main caus famine, soil degradation, unbridl exploit natur resources, arm conflicts, popul displacements, south-north migratori flow continu toll human lives.",1
0,"order prevent loss reput intern organizations, must first review mentality, institut rules.",1
0,"also launch develop bank solomon island aim provid sustain financi servic target develop rural areas, especi small medium enterpris primarili engag commerc industries.",1
2,"regard, strongli support vision ambiti reform agenda un secretary-general. albania convinc reform unit nation deliv integr system-wid approach achiev 2030 agenda make sure one left behind.",1
1,"current chair sadc organ politics, defenc secur cooperation, botswana commit ensur close attent given imper combat terror secur threat order enhanc peac stabil sadc region.",1
2,"tunisia welcom ceasefir agreement sisterli libya underscor firm commit utmost assist libyan brother reach polit settlement inclus libyan dialogue, unit nation auspices. also call intern commun uphold respons establish secur find sustain comprehens solut variou disput crise region world.",1
2,"path post-covid-19 “new normal” linear. stage way, countri need balanc public health concern econom social concerns, make trade-off base uniqu nation circumstances. continu intern cooper key overcom devast impact pandem rebuilding. need build greater trust, need learn one another. also need cooper establish safe protocol order re-start travel again.",1
2,"‘unit nation’, must dissuad tension nation creat play pandemic. everi public privat institut must readi promot intern cooperation, get better prepar deal futur global threat commit multilateralism. covid-19 gener strong global viewpoint peopl dread think backward inward think forward outward, hope creat world want. achiev effect all-benefit multilater build back better togeth call ensur one left behind. entail leverag exist innov partnerships, coordin responses, refrain protectionist measures, strengthen inclusion, invest technolog sustain econom social sector midst crises, among other",1
1,"accordingly, belaru advoc support pragmat initi within un order fulli realiz potenti organ maintain intern peac security.",1
1,"“a landlock sahelian country, alreadi confront number crises, chad suffer full-on mani repercuss pandem variou level nation life. attend country’ nation prioriti upended, state’ limit resourc redirect deal first foremost health, humanitarian socioeconom emergencies.",1
1,"mr. president, barbados’ recoveri econom social impact covid-19 pandem slow painful. resuscit economi balanc act reopen tourism-rel servic air travel, ensur popul remain safe. given import global tourism industry, firm view worker sector prioritis among frontlin worker earmark receiv approv vaccinations. would put hundr million peopl back work stimul largest global econom driver,",1
1,"number verifi violat children still worri education, one priorities, still attack. particularli worri impact covid-19 vulner group children arm conflicts.",1
1,"like alreadi said, republ serbia within group big countries, neither territori population. but, judg cultur contribut science, countri among develop nations.",1
1,"would like express government’ gratitud unit nations, member state intern organ consider assist provid develop countri gener benin, particular, design implement strategi respond pandemic. thank combin efforts, spread viru limit country, meant benin’ rate spread death rate low.",1
2,"viet nam pursu foreign polici independence, self-reliance, multilater diversif relations. reliabl partner active, respons member intern community, viet nam attach import work un expand comprehens cooper organization. viet nam work member state make un democratic, transpar effective.",1
2,"took us 44 year sinc seychelles’ independ attain qualiti life enjoy covid-19, 4 month covid-19 paralys tourism industri much economy.",1
2,"escal alarm situat countri urg intern commun undertak extra measur coordin action fight terrorism, cope drug manufactur traffick narcotics, likewis deliv time assist govern peopl afghanistan.",1
2,"honor address behalf bosnia herzegovina year’ unit nation gener assembly. although, due extraordinari circumst caus health crisis, opportun gather un headquarters, extrem import exchang experi opinion manner, maintain continu unit nation gener assembl sessions.",1
2,"covid-19 pandem time remind yet interconnectedness. world teeter brink uncertainties, need ‘nation unit one’. global solidar unifi respons best armour pandem socio-econom impact peopl facing. acknowledg ongo support un develop partner continu assist effort mitig impact pandemic. hope success develop vaccin equal even distribution. let us spread kind faster virus, hate, fear misinformation.",1
0,"said, covid-19 pandem catalys alreadi unsustain live condit thousand migrant so-cal host countries, report worsen abandon lack respons attent author countries. fragil social protect system countri becom evident, sometim present social econom models. wonder again, possible, despit great amount dollar given govern extravag donor recruit confer venezuelan migrants? money? govern steal it? believ must certainli review, institut scientif rigour role unit nation agencies, peopl agencies, play processes, unhcr intern organ migrat  iom .",1
0,adopt similar approach climat action maintain increas climat ambit context pandem prevent post-covid rebound greenhous ga emissions.,1
2,"albania strive make full use econom potential, align nation prioriti object 2030 sustain develop agenda nation strategi develop integration.",1
0,"term econom stimulus, govern launch programm anim impact sector economi includ extens $7.25-million line credit micro, small medium enterpris  provis wage subsidi promot employe retention, provis $5-million special line credit tourism stakeholders. also launch econom recoveri strategi rest 5 pillar namely: support busi recovery, creat busi climat growth, improv govern efficiency, strengthen product sector agriculture, grow emerg economy.",1
2,"pandem prompt increas divis across world, well attempt weaken democracy. however, period facilit spread disinform mislead information, possibl vector spread violenc extremism.",1
0,optimist implement second phase eas busi reform help improv world bank rankings.,1
2,"pandem escal econom crisi associ also neg effect sustain development, 2030 goals.",1
0,"human rights, intern agreement instrument establish principl oblig protect human rights, rule law, good governance, emphasi vulner group children, elderly, person disabilities, low-incom earners, well migrant workers. therefor respons remain commit oblig continu ensur progress implementation. thailand, current implement 4th nation human right plan results-ori mindset. also proud thailand first countri asia enact nation action plan busi human rights, implement sinc 2019.",1
0,"intens crisi demonstr glare socio-econom gap within countries. better defin expos uniqu financi human resourc endow strength, capac abil cope challenges. pandem underscor individu strength weak without collect differenti commit solidarity. reiter re-emphas live global villag therefore, need other. conclud that, without collect commit multilateralism, never accomplish ideal “decad action delivery” pinnacl 2030 agenda — leav one behind.",1
1,"first, global region multilater mechan must strengthened. need unit nation truli cohes inclusive, everi member, larg small, rich poor, voic decid matter common concern. un must serv “incubator” multilater cooper initi peace, develop prosperity. reform undertaken transform un stronger effect organ fulfil role harmon interest behavior state face monument chang time.",1
2,"effect climat breakdown continu impact us long we’v dealt pandemic, covid-19 present new opportun take action climat chang countri make drastic chang infrastructure, job investment.",1
1,"attack — know — limit unilater coerciv measures. may 3rd, venezuela face attempt maritim incurs group mercenari terrorists, financ govern unit state train colombian territory, total absolut support u.s. colombian governments. group terrorist confront real time civic-militari polic union, perpetr attack, arm incurs venezuela, neutral captured, order judici institut due process.",1
2,"regard health care, govern open dedic centr lome country’ econom regions, train personnel suppli critic laboratory, medic protect equipment. scientif committe develop treatment plan. taken variou social measur benefit population, particularli vulner sectors, order mitig impact pandem — reduc cost water electricity, remov tax basic needs, provid food distribut subsid disadvantag citizen novissi cash transfer programme, and, lastly, support businesses. would therefor like take opportun express sincer thank variou partner assist togo fight pandemic.",1
2,"time, invest strengthen state govern structur creat environ conduc growth. mean continu combat system corruption, improv public financi manag systems, strengthen provinci district level governance.",1
2,"“the gener assembl approv quadrenni comprehens polici review oper activ develop unit nation system reposit unit nation develop system 2016 2018 respectively, order make develop system strategic, accountable, transparent, collaborative, efficient, effect results-oriented. approv aros need reposit unit nation oper activ develop support countri nation effort implement 2030 agenda sustain development. commend secretary-gener progress made far implement approv reform consult member states. uganda work within group 77  g-77  china next cycl quadrenni comprehens polici review ensur receiv appropri polici guidanc next four year support countri acceler implement 2030 agenda jurisdictions.",1
2,"country, half popul young, extens work underway ensur everi young person take worthi place societi demonstr potential.",1
1,"outset, let sincer congratul assum presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. excellency, assur vanuatu’ commit support tenure, everi confid presid success guid us collect pursuit futur want, ralli spirit cooper essenti unit nation need.",1
1,"must first identifi driver turmoil. five sources, afghanistan deal simultaneously. covid-19 pandem expos vulnerabilities, point we, global community, could longer afford ignor them. afghan fortun contain first wave pandem close government, busi societ cooperation, minim input un agencies, pandem expos gap system must addressed.",1
1,"global cooper partnerships, region nation levels, crucial build resilient, sustain inclus world.",1
1,"prospect achiev sustain develop hing heavili safeti secur people. global pandem unfortun exacerb threat pose illicit traffick small arm light weapons, piracy, traffick person cybercrimes. given ardent desir free societi effect preval unregul small arm light weapons, trinidad tobago remain fulli commit arm trade treati  att  view indispens address menac illicit arm trade.",1
1,"renew commit expect deliv concret result key benchmark relat democrat function rule law, reflect crossparti polit consensu serv overal stabil country.",1
2,“we therefor call intern commun greater sustain support multin joint task forc lake chad basin g-5 sahel joint forc establish countri region combat boko haram jihadist group sahel.,1
0,"come end, year 2020 undoubtedli seen one difficult histori term public-health crisi brought coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandemic, spread world, caus untold human suffering. expos mani unforeseen vulner among intern commun caus unpreced econom crisis. deliber assembl still search last cure plague. would like take opportun pay tribut memori victim viru commend extraordinari work healthcar worker everi countri save million lives.",1
0,"sinc last quarter 2017, bosnia herzegovina face enorm problem illeg migrations, significantli worsen year. due close remain migrat routes, major migrant come far middl east head toward countri european union territori bosnia herzegovina, pose enorm secur humanitarian problem, counti enough resourc solv it.",1
1,"go talk multilater count everyone, must deliv equit recoveri prioritis innovation, science, health, wellbeing, opportun liveabl environ countri societies.",1
2,"iranian regim interf yemen support coup carri surrogate, houthi militia, legitim government. led political, economic, humanitarian crisi fratern peopl yemen suffering. coup threat secur countri region sea lane vital global economy. furthermore, houthi militia imped flow humanitarian aid yemeni people. also obstruct effort reach polit solut yemen reject effort deescal situation, latest ceasefir announc made coalit support legitimaci yemen last april respons un’ request, order allow effort combat covid-19 pandem yemen proceed. instead, continu target civilian yemen kingdom.",1
0,"crisi necessarili bring suffering. time, teach us use lesson help us develop stronger effect respons futur challenges. “new normal” futur social landscap look like depend sole generation, also youth new generations. togeth must creat space gener join hand collabor order plan futur want.",1
0,"coincid 75th anniversari unit nations, world wit critic turn point follow spread coronavirus. celebr achiev made sinc foundat unit nations, must reflect natur challeng face. today, conflict becom danger regionalized. also grow influenc extremist groups. threat cyberwar rise use sophist weapon attack strateg area increasing.",1
0,"sinc earli day covid-19 outbreak uzbekistan, focus effort resourc contain danger diseas and, importantly, save people’ lives.",1
0,unflinch commit peac result adopt zero- toler polici toward terror violent extremism. nation effort complement intern cooper curb menace.,1
1,"terror violent extrem continu repres one seriou threat nation peopl intern peac security. scourg worsen exploit ongo crise activ organ crime certain countri regions. threat target state themselves, social cohes effort develop democracy.",1
0,"conclusion, would like emphas yet anoth point: continu unrest variou part world, grow conflict violence, environment disast modern threat exacerb global problem miseri poverty.",1
1,"econom front, econom situat continu increasingli weigh citizen result econom distort caus defunct regime. furthermore, profound reform set implement, aim remedi structur defect sudanes economy, indirectli increas cost living. reform pain arduous, necessari long term. order mitig effects, start implement social programm support famili provid direct financi aid poorest famili aim mitig effect reforms. programm also aim support product provid direct support agricultur labour group product rural urban areas. govern also support establish cooper project implement commod programme, project aim provid basic commod citizens.",1
1,"covid-19 expos vulner food secur systems. atol nation like tuvalu, agricultur difficult rise sea levels. last years, assist develop partners, invest new agricultur food product system resili climat chang sea level rise. acknowledg recent work peacebuild fund area would encourag assist scale initi develop food secur atol nations.",1
0,"theme year’ gener debat apt timely. need reaffirm commit multilater face challeng covid 19 pandemic, shape “the futur want, unit nation need”.",1
2,"similar context, countri express deep concern regard turkey’ militari interfer libya, alarm part region interfer arab affair exacerb humanitarian crisis, undermin effort reach peac solution, destabil entir region. therefore, countri support repeat call immedi ceasefir libya call upon parti commit polit process auspic unit nation build outcom berlin conference. sinc outbreak conflict libya, countri call peac polit solut crisi order achiev last secur stability.",1
1,"one singl resourc financ product sector recoveri diverted, given current context, serv need biosafeti necess urgent epidemiolog natur brought pandemic.",1
0,"theme chosen 75th session render us time opportun again, turn eye toward strength multilater address multipl complex challeng world face today.",1
0,"global family, collect commit multilater effect tackl covid-19 pandem meaning address prevail univers challeng poverty, hunger, diseases, natur disasters, climat change, terrorism, human right violations, cybersecurity, transnat organ crime.",1
2,"therefore, sustain develop aspir futur gener must centr share human harmoni law nature.",1
1,"covid-19 crisi proven disinform hostil action inform environ threaten intern human security, effect addressed. crisi demonstr crucial need access reliable, accur science-bas information. thus, confirm role free, independent, account pluralist media strengthen transparency, account trust.",1
2,"crisi trigger covid-19 profound impact daili live mani families, countri exception. sens respons duti feel toward fellow citizen led govern andorra review road map envisag legislature, develop action plan base convict decis make must increas potenti countri move toward develop preserv sustain medium long term.",1
1,"kingdom’ hand extend iran peac posit open attitud past decades, avail. kingdom receiv sever iran’ presid senior officials, among kingdom’ effort seek way build relat base good neighborli mutual respect. kingdom welcom intern effort deal iran’ nuclear program, time again, entir world wit iranian regim exploit effort order intensifi expansionist activities, creat terrorist networks, use terrorism, process squander resourc wealth iranian peopl purpos expansionist project produc noth chaos, extremism, sectarianism.",1
0,unit nation remain best hope provid polit necessari commit avoid existenti threat mani small state un family.,1
1,"particularli appreci organization’ effort includ civil societi privat sector, part solut economic, social environment issu arise, inclus sustain develop requir particip entir society.",1
2,use tenur promot intern peac secur advoc peac settlement disput inclus dialogue.,1
2,"year mark fifty-fifth anniversari resolut 2065  xx , first adopt organ question malvina islands, call argentina unit kingdom hold negoti order reach peac definit solut sovereignti dispute.",1
1,"sudan express solidar victim terror around world countri suffer terrorist attacks. renew reject condemn terror form manifest cooperation, access effect contribut intern bilater effort terror financing. commit implement relev intern resolut issu secur council.",1
1,"samoa’ long-term vision improv qualiti life mirror un 2030 agenda, critic roadmap uphold three pillar un. achiev sdg take us closer world envisag founder organis 75 year ago, futur want joined.",1
2,"pandem reveal us fragil recreat need build bridg people, nation regions.",1
1,"prevent genocid unwav prioriti armenia. nation endur horrors, moral respons human preserv memori victim genocid contribut effort intern commun prevent recurr horrend crimes.",1
0,"why, start pandemic, argentina focus primarili protect live care vulnerable, implement seri emerg measur prevent collaps health system mitig immedi impact pandemic.",1
0,"militari increas substanti size. spent $2.5 trillion last 4 year military. power militari anywher world, it’ even close.",1
1,"see partner stakehold nation intern level one key factor acceler implement 2030 agenda. middle-incom country, belaru believ separ un strategi promot sustain develop — line similar document group develop countri — necessari success achiev sustain develop goal categori states.",1
2,“that compound low level synergi among variou initi forc present sahel. therefor believ time translat word action sahel honour pledg contribut marshal addit resourc make g-5 joint forc fulli oper implement develop project g-5 sahel prioriti invest programme.,1
0,"first, global region multilater mechan must strengthened. need unit nation truli cohes inclusive, everi member, larg small, rich poor, voic decid matter common concern. un must serv “incubator” multilater cooper initi peace, develop prosperity. reform undertaken transform un stronger effect organ fulfil role harmon interest behavior state face monument chang time.",1
2,"natur relat africa countri coloni past redefin order transform pain histori colon opportun mutual benefici cooperation, cannot lose sight fact conquest enslav africa strong resist peopl africa defend invas free coloni yoke claim million live africa left deep wound remain unhealed.",1
1,"violat iraq’ sovereignty, use refuge bargain chip europe, laid claim forc energi resourc mediterranean. current turkish regim becom rogu outlaw regim intern law. polici actions, threaten secur stabil whole region, must stopped.",1
2,"outset, would like extend sincerest congratul mr. volkan bozkir elect presid 75th session un gener assembly, wish success fulfil duties.",1
2,"sudan, despit chang caus blood martyr decad oppression, injustic backwardness, despit achiev made brief span gloriou revolution, transit period still face number daunt challeng must overcom continu support intern commun friend order complet implement government’ plans. aim address econom hardship countri go through, foremost among waiv sudan’ debt grant soft loans, well commit friend fulfil pledg announc sudan partnership confer berlin. that, name sudan must remov list countri sponsor terrorism, countri return fulli intern commun forc interrupt three decades. context, wish commend recent step taken us administr us congress support transit government, includ determin acceler step drop sudan list terrorist countries.",1
1,5.	the deliveri comprehens financi technic assist develop countri intern organ develop least develop countri monitor preserv glacier sourc water.,1
0,"even if, countri end imf programm give short-term relief, unless suspens debt payments, debt forgiv debt rescheduling, recov economi  certainli achiev un sustain develop goals, debt stock enlarg compound interest result unpaid debts.",1
0,close profession coordin joint effort medic scientif commun around world necessari ever fast victori pandemic.,1
2,"although illeg interfer destabil yemen’ secur years, strongli believ stabil yemen restored, especi within current environ could lead complet ceasefir perman polit solut auspic unit nations. regard, affirm decis pursu polit process yemen yemeni decision. countri also commend tremend effort made brotherli kingdom saudi arabia. reiter uae’ support riyadh agreement call unit yemeni posit order reach sustain solution.",1
1,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations, need strengthen resolv ensur one left behind. ensur equal particip everi individual, irrespect gender sexual orientation, essenti realis 2030 agenda.",1
0,"seen digit take giant step matter weeks, also seen telework becom norm educ non-presential, oblig million peopl becom technolog literate. also seen crack appear process  reconsid valu system care elderly, main victim viru  must rememb telework bring better work-lif balanc home space appropri adequ  seen distanc learn highlight deep inequ among famili cannot access services, suffer overexposur inform which, apart reduc human contact, sometim creat manipul unsaf environments.",1
1,"seem indisput us reason exist unit nation mainten peac secur world, essenti foster development.",1
1,"way, celebr un’ next milestone, 100th anniversary, would achiev 100 per cent literaci rate, empow everyon relev skill knowledg meaning life.",1
1,put right clean drink water constitution. recogn preserv water resourc key element protect biodiversity.,1
1,"finally, take opportun reaffirm thailand’ commit support agenda unit nations, peac security, development, climat chang management, commit human rights, promot partnership variou sectors. multilater guid us crisi together, done throughout 75 years, futur peac prevail better world futur generations.",1
0,"argentina manag seal major deal almost privat extern creditors, becom one first countri meet challeng debt restructur pandemic.",1
2,"like alreadi said, republ serbia within group big countries, neither territori population. but, judg cultur contribut science, countri among develop nations.",1
1,"but, minds, also led uncertainti question future.",1
0,"wetlands, area larger mani european countries, california, face problems. larg fire inevit consequ high local temperatur coupl accumul decay organ matter.",1
1,"behind turkey’ success stori lie effect govern mechan establish presidenti govern system, high capac develop infrastructur invest area health, qualifi human resources.",1
1,"invest huge effort order help surviv economy, firstli thank disciplin respons manag public finance. despit crisi effects, serbia excel result economi first two quarter year strong reason believ end year remain among stabl economi europe.",1
1,"coincid 75th anniversari unit nations, world wit critic turn point follow spread coronavirus. celebr achiev made sinc foundat unit nations, must reflect natur challeng face. today, conflict becom danger regionalized. also grow influenc extremist groups. threat cyberwar rise use sophist weapon attack strateg area increasing.",1
1,"war impos us caus humanitarian catastrophe, destroy societi led wave collect displacement. also caus repression, forc disappear worst case poverti ever seen peopl decades. extend hand peace. done utmost support facilit effort unit nation current special envoy, mr. martin griffiths, well previou envoys, view save countri establish last comprehens peace. goal stop bloodlet yemen yemeni catastroph yemeni peopl accept iranian model territory, regardless circumst challenges.",1
2,"course, come sponsor financi terrorism, current turkish regim reign supreme. turkish regim one main sponsor terror syria region. facilit passag ten thousand foreign terrorist syria continu provid form support al-nusra front affili terrorist group massacr syrians. carri ‘turkification’ forc displac polici territori occupi syria. consid collect punish million civilian reject turkish occup hasakah dozen towns, turkish regim deliber repeatedli cut city’ water supply, endang live civilians, especi covid-19 pandemic. legal terms, amount war crime crime humanity. way, crimin behavior terrorist exhibit cut water suppli million civilian damascu 2017. then, like today, self-styl human right defend even lift finger.",1
1,"‘unit nation’, must dissuad tension nation creat play pandemic. everi public privat institut must readi promot intern cooperation, get better prepar deal futur global threat commit multilateralism. covid-19 gener strong global viewpoint peopl dread think backward inward think forward outward, hope creat world want. achiev effect all-benefit multilater build back better togeth call ensur one left behind. entail leverag exist innov partnerships, coordin responses, refrain protectionist measures, strengthen inclusion, invest technolog sustain econom social sector midst crises, among other",1
1,"believ un prestig could strengthen enhanc role humanitarian human compon multilater bilater relations, name people-to-peopl youth exchanges, cultur ties, social educ programs, well cooper sports, science, technology, environ health protection.",1
0,"decis establish “green corridors” region use one, enabl smooth transport assistance, without delay border administr cross points.",1
0,"fact, happen pandem shown us sustain develop goal import guid combat kind global crises.",1
2,"follow logic neutral polici turkmenistan intend submit draft resolut “the role unit nation region centr prevent diplomaci central asia” gener assembly’ consider ensur region peace, security, develop unleash potenti prevent diplomacy.",1
0,"govern commit issu why, first time history, creat ministri women, gender diversity, well nation cabinet, ensur gender polici cross-cutting.",1
0,youth contin — 60 per cent popul 24 year age — immens natur resourc vital repres tremend potenti term econom social transformation. time therefor come serious look africa light.,1
2,"five year ago, sustain develop goal adopted, defin ambit integr global development. ten year remain 2030, let’ deceiv difficult meet target time. countries, especi africa, alreadi off-track 2020. pandem disrupt growth revenu collect around world, like sever year come.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem is, apart human toll, turn food suppli chain upsid down, paralys economi erod consum purchas power.",1
1,"zimbabw new path. like nation region, face humanitarian challeng case worsen illeg sanctions, neg impact climat change, compound outbreak covid-19 pandemic.",1
1,"“the gener assembl approv quadrenni comprehens polici review oper activ develop unit nation system reposit unit nation develop system 2016 2018 respectively, order make develop system strategic, accountable, transparent, collaborative, efficient, effect results-oriented. approv aros need reposit unit nation oper activ develop support countri nation effort implement 2030 agenda sustain development. commend secretary-gener progress made far implement approv reform consult member states. uganda work within group 77  g-77  china next cycl quadrenni comprehens polici review ensur receiv appropri polici guidanc next four year support countri acceler implement 2030 agenda jurisdictions.",1
1,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nation midst global pandem — pandem place enorm pressur societies, commun families. would like express deepest condol live lost.",1
2,"behalf peopl el salvador also express heartfelt thank countries, repres privat enterpris volunt throughout world help continu help us. help enabl us continu save thousand lives, term pandemic, also future. everi life save save togeth repres gener save — hundr thousand futur live stori preserv thank recent action. thank god give us opportun everyon help us that.",1
1,"twenty-six year bomb argentin israelit mutual associ headquarters, wish maintain polici initi 2003 continu thereafter. call author islam republ iran cooper argentin judici author order make progress investig attack.",1
1,"time, un instrument bring world togeth defend human rights, democraci democrat institutions, uphold rule law, good governance, sustain peac secur advanc path toward realiz 17 sustain develop goals.",1
2,"celebr 25th anniversari 4th world confer women 1 st octob year, gratifi highlight zimbabw taken major step implement beij declaration. includ adopt gender respons constitution, establish zimbabw gender commission, enact sever piec legisl outlaw practic infring right women girl forc child marriag discrimin women inherit matters. govern also set women’ bank facilit access financ women-own busi projects.",1
0,"though juri still reforms, deleg observ manag reform brought improv organisation’ crisi response. nonetheless believ remain done, encourag gener assembl princip organ step reform efforts.",1
2,"peace, secur develop central asia directli depend settlement situat afghanistan. posit turkmenistan principl remain unchanged. altern negoti process. previou experi shown coerciv approach prospect fail lead agreement reconciliation. countri afghanistan’ neutral immedi neighbor state readi provid necessari polit organiz condit territori establish peac dialogu govern afghanistan parti interest polit settlement situat afghanistan.",1
0,"finally, take opportun reaffirm thailand’ commit support agenda unit nations, peac security, development, climat chang management, commit human rights, promot partnership variou sectors. multilater guid us crisi together, done throughout 75 years, futur peac prevail better world futur generations.",1
2,"conclusion, would like emphas yet anoth point: continu unrest variou part world, grow conflict violence, environment disast modern threat exacerb global problem miseri poverty.",1
1,"would like take opportun call everi member gener assembl perman member secur council help us achiev end-stat sovereign, unit democrat afghanistan, peac region, capabl preserv expand gain last 19 years. democrat stabl prosper afghanistan exampl collect overcom turmoil uncertainti defin world today. thank you.hi excel antonio guterres, secretari gener unit nations.",1
2,"increas invest purpos infrastructur gener econom product improv standard living. construct resurfac roads, expand access carbon-neutr energi off-grid locations, extend ict penetration, improv access potabl water sanit facilities.",1
0,"beliz tourism dependent, export orient country. invariably, therefore, travel tourism industri shutdown market agro product depressed, economi flounders. date 73 per cent worker tourism sector, labour intens sector economy, lost jobs. seemli simultaneously, countri beset health crisi econom crisis. order deal health crisis, govern establish bipartisan nation oversight committe  noc  broad supervisori respons belize’ covid-19 respons recoveri initiatives, includ initi mitig impact covid-19 pandem societi economy.",1
2,"solomon island present first ever voluntari nation review report implement agenda 2030 juli year. despit technolog challenges, abl highlight achiev made date. solomon island continu see increas number children enrol formal educ system. secondly, proud establish nation financ framework develop underpin financ implement sustain develop goals.",1
2,"1945, unit nation emerg ruin devast war history. organ led way tackl univers challeng creat institut framework made signific progress area import human rights, poverti eradication, consolid democrat institutions, fight climat chang promot sustain development, also provid protect vulner arm conflicts. thank multilateralism, unit nation often abl reach area tradit diplomaci not. even time present one, pandem expos weak states, unit nation continu see cooper antidot confrontation. perspective, would like highlight work organ carri out, especi secretari general, within context fragil present situat which, unfortunately, share mani common point scenario led found unit nations.",1
0,"pandem alreadi claim 1 million live — million lost dreams, million peopl mourn death love one million live forev changed. must continu work prevent number increasing. god grant prayer them.",1
2,current crisi threaten slow even revers progress new sustain develop goals.,1
1,"tunisia welcom ceasefir agreement sisterli libya underscor firm commit utmost assist libyan brother reach polit settlement inclus libyan dialogue, unit nation auspices. also call intern commun uphold respons establish secur find sustain comprehens solut variou disput crise region world.",1
0,"sahel, example, terror violent extrem found fertil ground, result death toll, destruct infrastructur looting, therebi maintain environ fear. backdrop polit institut instability, poverty, exclusion, porou border illiteracy, among others.",1
0,"current threaten complex situat prove state peopl world interconnect regular dialogue, trust close cooper among us extrem important.",1
1,“that compound low level synergi among variou initi forc present sahel. therefor believ time translat word action sahel honour pledg contribut marshal addit resourc make g-5 joint forc fulli oper implement develop project g-5 sahel prioriti invest programme.,1
1,"decarbon remain central effort combat impact climat change, help build resili small vulner economi societies. need clean afford energi energi efficiency, renew electrification. pari agreement’ 2020 commit updat ndc develop low emiss develop strategi remain critical. synerg covid19 recoveri effort acceler transit decarbon build resilience.",1
1,"let conclude, mr. president, reiter sierra leone’ call establish resili healthcar infrastructur servic curtail protect peopl risk covid-19. way intern commun reestablish confid stabil financi market creat right environ support global busi trade, investment, job creation. must put back track progress toward achiev sustain develop goals.",1
0,"deliv nation address via video link may emblemat extraordinari time, it’ also sign resolv adapt make use available. so, even though moment abl travel togeth person, continu find way har collect commit vision end pandem reset planet sustain peac footing.",1
1,"covid-19 close border neg impact global economy. solomon island exception, go difficult period, however, launch econom stimulu packag reset boost economy. let thank partner support econom initiative.",1
2,"attack — know — limit unilater coerciv measures. may 3rd, venezuela face attempt maritim incurs group mercenari terrorists, financ govern unit state train colombian territory, total absolut support u.s. colombian governments. group terrorist confront real time civic-militari polic union, perpetr attack, arm incurs venezuela, neutral captured, order judici institut due process.",1
0,"un made notabl achiev peac secur agenda, much work still need done. covid-19 contribut increas volatil instabl situations. grow inequality, poverty, arm conflicts, terror insecur still exist. peopl flee home search refug safeti becom new normal. threat use nuclear weapon still present.",1
0,"behalf govern people, may take opportun congratul elect presid 75th session unit nation gener assembly. wealth experi serv organ well, lead us agenda, particularli unpreced challeng times, world navig way global pandem caus covid-19. let assur solomon island support cooper tenur office.",1
1,"addition, propos adopt special resolut unit nation gener assembl enhanc role parliament achiev sustain develop goal ensur human rights.",1
0,"“at intern level, welcom ceasefir libya, declar simultan presid presid council govern nation accord speaker hous representatives. chad reiter call secur council shoulder respons end extern interference. urg libyan stakehold respect ceasefir resolut engag process inclus negoti lead true nation reconciliation.",1
0,"throughout 75 year exist unit nations, common thread tapestri collect action recognit global challeng best overcom practic multilater base mutual respect trust. ever time demonstr true spirit global partnership reaffirm rules-bas commitments.",1
2,"samoa’ long-term vision improv qualiti life mirror un 2030 agenda, critic roadmap uphold three pillar un. achiev sdg take us closer world envisag founder organis 75 year ago, futur want joined.",1
2,"theme year’ gener debat apt timely. need reaffirm commit multilater face challeng covid 19 pandemic, shape “the futur want, unit nation need”.",1
0,"devast impact crisi economi indisputable! collaps econom growth consequ dearth sourc foreign exchang shock commod prices, well declin exports, invest migrant remittances, put world economi crisi situat like seen sinc 1930s.",1
0,futur multilater depend transform global respons covid 19 pandemic.,1
2,"regard burundi’ presenc secur council’ agenda, alway said burundi unfairli includ secur council’ agenda polit reason self-interest certain powers, noth welfar burundian peopl way whatsoev pose threat intern peac security.",1
2,"“such case deadli 23 march attack perpetr boko haram chadian defenc secur forc boma lac province. vigor respons launch forces, led clear island lake chad boko haram terrorist elements.",1
1,"sudan continu activ contribut support stabil polit secur situat countri african continent, especi countri region, activ membership region organ african union, igad, intern confer great lake region, sahel sahara. occasion, would like express appreci great posit role african union play confront coronaviru pandem africa.",1
2,"seem indisput us reason exist unit nation mainten peac secur world, essenti foster development.",1
0,"notabl climat change, undoubtedli greatest threat common future. expert estimate, 2100 climat chang five time deadli covid-19. abl organ creat 20 parallel team worldwid develop anti-covid vaccine, lack much need knowledge. climat change, know do. need show genuin act together, one. make real priority. let science, innovations, also solidar compass lead way.",1
0,"outset, let also, behalf govern peopl sierra leone, express heartfelt deep condol member state unit nation loss live due covid-19 pandemics. salut selfless frontlin respond global emergency.",1
1,"believ multilater allow us overcom enorm challeng face world. indeed, health crisi caus covid-19 pandem ravag world shown us combin effort intern solidar help us mitig nefari worldwid impacts.",1
2,"also stand fratern peopl lebanon experienc humanitarian catastroph result explos port beirut, occur result hegemoni hizbollah, terrorist organ affili iran, decis make process lebanon forc arms. led disabl constitut state institut lebanon. order fratern peopl lebanon achiev aspir security, stability, prosperity, terrorist organ must disarmed.",1
2,year 2020 rememb massiv groundswel push back frontier racism umbrella #blacklivesmatt movement.,1
0,statement endors entirety. socio-econom sustain region compromis without proactiv debt suspens restructur ultim debt relief.,1
1,"approach, though tested, save live livelihood protected, best abl to, vulnerable.",1
2,"iranian regime, line hostil attitude, target oil facil kingdom last year blatant violat intern laws. so, assault intern peac secur prove disregard stabil global economi secur oil suppli intern markets. iranian regim also continues, surrogates, target kingdom, launching, date, 300 ballist missil 400 arm drone  uav  stark violat unsc resolut 2216  2015  2231  2015 . experi iranian regim taught us partial solut appeas stop threat intern peac security. comprehens solut firm intern posit requir ensur fundament solut iranian regime’ attempt obtain weapon mass destruction, ballist missil program, interfer intern affair countries, sponsorship terrorism.",1
2,"venezuela tradit host countri refuge migrants. however, direct consequ crimin unilater coerciv measur econom aggress impos govern unit state people, process migrat citizen taken place, fundament econom reasons.",1
2,"anoth instanc one-sided global financi system organis limit membership engag univers “blacklisting”, correspond bank relationship unilater withdrawn. small countri blacklist dare exert sovereign right creat taxat system forc compet rule voic setting.",1
2,"thus, timor-lest believ pari agreement climat chang sustain develop goal embodi essenti mean issu road reconstruct countries. develop famili farming, ration plan use natur resources, fight pollut intellig polici protect environment, engag citizen crucial issu must respect life possibl planet.",1
1,use tenur promot intern peac secur advoc peac settlement disput inclus dialogue.,1
2,"“with regard sudan, chad welcom sign peac agreement among sudanes parti 31 august juba thank mediat efforts, chad stakeholder, leadership presid salva kiir mayardit republ south sudan, whose person involv commend.",1
0,"mark 75th anniversari this, great institution, cannot conclud that, unit nations’ import continu relev mankind beyond question. context need revit fulfil ideal established.",1
2,"also express admir gratitud doctors, paramedics, nurses, technic staff, volunteers, work selflessli mani month save live health peopl differ part world.",1
0,"way elabor solut work together, import task un g20 states, well lead inter state organ integr associ also go tough time due pandem impact need fundament new horizon scope development.",1
0,"turkmenistan strongli believ futur un continu strengthen build strateg partnership organization, therebi make contribut unlock inexhaust potenti interest global peace, secur progress.",1
1,"pandem addit emphas need close intens intern cooperation, wherebi un special agenc organizations, like world health organization, irreplac role organ respons newli occur challeng health nature, also socio-economic, polit secur dimension.",1
0,"el salvador, tri time clean hous regard problem lie ahead, but, thank god, see tangibl results. help friendli countries, succeed drastic lower insecur indicators, includ homicides, extort robberies, among others. administration, save averag nine live day murder — nine famili mourn death love one. thank god achiev much faster thought possible.",1
1,"good reason, first time high week gener assembly’ commemor session held unusu format.",1
2,"mark 75th anniversari this, great institution, cannot conclud that, unit nations’ import continu relev mankind beyond question. context need revit fulfil ideal established.",1
1,"despit cruelty, pandem given us opportun increasingli awar import sustain develop goal 2030 agenda.",1
2,75th anniversari un foundat becom impetu transform organ dynam effici body.,1
1,"fulli realiz responsibility, russia suggest conven g5 summit. would aim reaffirm key principl behavior intern affairs, elabor way effect address today’ burn issues. encourag partner support initiative. expect hold summit — person — soon epidemiolog situat make possible.",1
1,"activ member unit nations, made contribut reinforc awar sustain develop goals. experi point need state strong institut capabl face challeng threat modern times. convinc intern conflict must resolv negoti dialogue. tool allow promot peac necessari humankind. concern recent increas tension maritim disput south china sea. proudli say first countri use compulsori concili mechanism, advoc unit nation convent law sea. call parti involv resolv differ dialogu negoti order achiev peac solution.",1
0,"covid-19 crisi brought stark realiz import solidar cooper — among within multilater organizations, world health organization.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem complic situat transit government, inherit crippl economi weak devast servic sectors, particularli health sector, neglect decades.",1
0,"unit nation world econom situat prospect  wesp  mid 2020 report, confirm leader commun experienced, pandem unleash health econom crisi unpreced scope magnitude.",1
2,"respect, san marino welcom strateg prepared respons plan address immedi health needs, produc who, global humanitarian respons plan eas impact 63 highli vulner countries, un covid-19 respons recoveri fund, socioeconom respons recoveri middle- lower-incom countries. republ san marino support un secretary-general’ call global cease-fire, issu 23 march, urg war parti corner world pull back hostilities. moreover, countri join secretari general’ global call emphas need end violenc women everywhere, includ home.",1
0,"azerbaijan taken time necessari prevent measur stop spread virus. azerbaijan’ attain millennium develop goal progress toward achiev sustain develop goal enabl us conduct effect fight pandemic. healthcar infrastructur azerbaijan develop renov significantly, almost 700 hospit healthcar facil built complet renov past 17 years.",1
0,"third, covid-19 pandem serv stern warn us all, requir stronger commit stronger action promot sustainable, inclus human-cent development. 2030 agenda sustain develop continu framework cooper overcom pandem sustain recovery. polici action interest peopl heart, one, country, left behind. develop countri receiv financi assistance, technolog commerci facilit realiz sustain develop goals.",1
2,"indeed, need recal climat chang devast effect populations, particularli increas poverty, rural exodus, social exclus intercommun tension natur resources.",1
0,"also express concern regard vulner conflict area coronaviru pandemic, area least prepar address danger.",1
2,"need concurr revitalis gener assembl make genuin attempt reform secur council. intern governance, ever before, need representative, inclusive, open. need take account wide spectrum view acknowledg rich divers global community. un secretary-general’ abil take current futur challeng also depend polit financi commit member states. thu essenti continu support.",1
2,"empower women girl central mygovernment’ medium-term nation develop plan. establish standalon ministri gender children’ affairs, develop nation gender equal women’ empower policy, support entrepreneurship econom inclusion,impl affirm polici women girl sectorsfrom educ agriculture, promot women’ health reduc matern child mortality, toughen sexual offenc laws, introduc one stop centr rape sexual offenc model courts.",1
0,"1.	encourag widespread use renew energi sources, would facilit friendli environ “green” economi development.",1
2,"swearing-in june excel mr. evarist ndayishimiye, presid republ burundi, culmin long-await presidenti elect burundi. elections’ peac conclusion, tanzania urg intern commun assist new govern provid much need aid econom social develop citizen burundi region large.",1
1,"thank all.th unit nation born second world war global consensu need maintain intern peac secur promot friendli relat nations. relat base respect equal right peopl self-determination, without resort forc threat forc territori integr polit independ nation manner inconsist unit nation principles. this? principl valu truli govern today’ intern relations? becom mere talk point polit media consumption?",1
2,"compel us intern commun embrac multilater effect way win battl best defens futur global threats, continu seek effect mean support small vulner nations.",1
2,"devast impact crisi economi indisputable! collaps econom growth consequ dearth sourc foreign exchang shock commod prices, well declin exports, invest migrant remittances, put world economi crisi situat like seen sinc 1930s.",1
2,"regard, exist situat opportun must take promot system intern coordin support.",1
1,"one job seychel offer worker made redund covid-19, example, plant hundr thousand tree across islands. measur keep call world’ scientist protect natur environ costs. restor planetari health balanc human ecolog wellbeing.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem deepen crise african continent. tunisia stress commit continu work african brother intern partner achiev sustain comprehens develop overcom challeng face together. context, reiter support silenc gun africa. initi ongo effort need greater intern support order african contin free conflict focu construct development.",1
1,"un secretary-gener alreadi initi essenti work. reform un gear toward meet new challenges, also promot forg consensu amongst member state emerg issues. need continu emphasi longstand issu like support small island develop state least develop countries.",1
2,"economi weakens, insuffici respons intern commun debt reschedul access concession financing, unemploy poverti growing.",1
1,public kept inform viru talk back show covid-19 oversight committee. also inform public weekli address nation broadcast live air televised. ensur peopl kept inform step govern undertak protect country. govern continu focu build necessari health infrastructur within hospit prepar accommod person may contract virus.,1
1,"honor address behalf bosnia herzegovina year’ unit nation gener assembly. although, due extraordinari circumst caus health crisis, opportun gather un headquarters, extrem import exchang experi opinion manner, maintain continu unit nation gener assembl sessions.",1
1,"respons leadership also mean willing seeth common global interest. preserv best exist architectur intern organ regim cooperation. often driver effect solutions. know work alway perfect. instead resent defund them, need find way improv them.",1
0,"year mark fifty-fifth anniversari resolut 2065  xx , first adopt organ question malvina islands, call argentina unit kingdom hold negoti order reach peac definit solut sovereignti dispute.",1
0,"allow conclud commend theme year’ gener assembl session. could come critic time, find face deadliest pandem affect modern world horrend ways. mani live tragic lost mani continu affect ongo onslaught. may take time paus reflect, viru chang live look way collabor togeth allevi impacts.",1
2,"look forward see iran respect principl good-neighborli abid secur council resolut stop develop ballist missil program ceas arm terrorist groups. context, countri particularli concern restrict impos iran nuclear agreement soon due expire. sinc nuclear agreement achiev desir outcome, hope experi use achiev comprehens agreement address concern state region make key partner draft term agreement.",1
1,covid-19 pandem quickli becom truli global threat. far over. alreadi learn lesson: cannot go back busi usual.,1
1,"said, covid-19 pandem catalys alreadi unsustain live condit thousand migrant so-cal host countries, report worsen abandon lack respons attent author countries. fragil social protect system countri becom evident, sometim present social econom models. wonder again, possible, despit great amount dollar given govern extravag donor recruit confer venezuelan migrants? money? govern steal it? believ must certainli review, institut scientif rigour role unit nation agencies, peopl agencies, play processes, unhcr intern organ migrat  iom .",1
0,"throughout past 75 years, unit nation member state relentlessli overcom global challenges. year, world face health crisi spread covid-19 wide affect live condit peopl well econom social system — overshadow special natur 75th anniversari unit nations. indeed, great challeng shall litmu test faith multilater uniti member state provid sustain solut overcom threat.",1
2,"outset, would like first foremost thank almighti god, enabl us come togeth debat issu dear heart behalf humankind.",1
0,"warn stem realiti experience. tension yemen, syria, libya, iraq state relat blatant interfer arab affair made state incit strife discord, histor delus restor domin coloni rule arab region horn africa. result brutal wars. context, recal firm posit reject region interfer arab affairs, request full respect sovereignty, fulli consist intern law intern norms.",1
1,"pandem prompt increas divis across world, well attempt weaken democracy. however, period facilit spread disinform mislead information, possibl vector spread violenc extremism.",1
2,plan implement project aim strengthen africa’ capac third turkey-african union partnership summit intend hold turkey next year.,1
2,"believ reciproc step specif issu would provid sound basi launch serious, profound dialogu entir rang factor affect strateg stability. would aim achiev comprehens arrangements, shape solid foundat intern secur architectur would build prior experi field line exist futur politico-militari technolog realia.",1
2,"session therefor take place extrem unusu context world disrupt ever. human tragedi result put multilater test urg us act resolut togeth halt scourge. welcom choic theme session gener assembly, “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — address covid-19 effect multilater action”. mani ways, theme emblemat overal environ anxiety, compel us unit solidar determined. covid-19 pandem requir immens sacrific us, success halt crisi depend willing unit effort counter pandem prevent popul fall back extrem poverty. unfortun fact covid-19 pandem slow effort meet sever sustain develop goals, includ area health, hunger decent work. therefor imper intern commun adopt concerted, global coher approach respond appropri pandemic. regard, commend initi secretary-gener who, begin pandemic, launch global respons unit nation system address pandem guid state safeguard advers consequ pandemic.",1
2,"today’ imper combat pandem togeth multilater joint action, deed word alone, build equal world, better equip withstand crise achiev real sustain develop all.",1
2,"first teacher everi child mother father, family, univers declar human right describ “natur fundament group unit society”. often, famili victim form ideolog coloni weaken end produc mani members, especi vulnerable, young elderly, feel orphan lack roots. breakdown famili reflect social fragment hinder effort confront common enemies. time reassess recommit achiev goals.",1
2,"hard over-emphasis open, rules-bas multilater trade system foundat sustain global recovery. system allow countri trade good servic mutual benefici ways. rais hundr million peopl poverty. aftermath covid-19, look way support strengthen system make work better future. also need rebuild safe reliabl transport network facilit resumpt peopl mobility.",1
2,"socio-econom stimulu packag worth $2 billion releas ensur econom stability, tackl employ issues, ensur macroeconom fiscal stability. social relief measur cover nearli 5 million people, half population.",1
1,"“the covid-19 crisi laid bare common weak and, time, demonstr need enhanc collect effort better understand overcom global challeng benefit everi one us. opportun great famili nations, celebr seventy-fifth anniversari organ current particular context, reaffirm central place unit nation primordi role multilater intern relations.",1
1,"indeed, pandem unpreced impact aspect human life. address global challeng requir recommit state effect multilater intern cooper central role unit nations.",1
2,"un made notabl achiev peac secur agenda, much work still need done. covid-19 contribut increas volatil instabl situations. grow inequality, poverty, arm conflicts, terror insecur still exist. peopl flee home search refug safeti becom new normal. threat use nuclear weapon still present.",1
0,"rage war sisterli yemen still demolish urban build yemen, wipe necess life, threaten secur region, affirm way resolv crisi negoti yemeni accord outcom nation dialogue, gulf initiative, relev secur council resolutions, particularly, resolut 2216  2015 . affirm firm posit uniti yemen territori integrity.",1
1,"global family, collect commit multilater effect tackl covid-19 pandem meaning address prevail univers challeng poverty, hunger, diseases, natur disasters, climat change, terrorism, human right violations, cybersecurity, transnat organ crime.",1
2,"pandem shed new light humanity’ need strengthen multilater system, base principl ideal enshrin un charter intern law.",1
2,"regard covid-19 pandemic, led unpreced global crisis, liter claim hundr thousand lives, affect million peopl threaten erod eye progress alreadi made implement sustain develop goal 2030 agenda sustain develop agenda 2063 african union.",1
0,"untold sorrow afghan people, particularli women children, last 40 years, serv remind relev un charter, also unfulfil promise, “maintain intern peac security.”",1
1,"build scientific, industri clinic experi doctor russia promptli develop rang test system medicin detect treat coronavirus, well regist world’ first vaccine, “sputnik-v.”",1
1,"also express admir gratitud doctors, paramedics, nurses, technic staff, volunteers, work selflessli mani month save live health peopl differ part world.",1
2,"must rapidli implement comprehens meaning reforms, start restructur secur council.",1
1,country’ govern attach great import issu rule law nation intern level make continu effort address nation law view develop ensur consist intern standard conventions. effort also consist multipl initi undertaken local relev author area build strengthen nation capac empow compet bodi fulfil respons task accord constitut relat laws. process achiev rule law nation level respons state governments.,1
2,"welcom tireless effort made un secretary-general, unit nation special agencies, foundat programm provid immedi long-term assist member state tackl humanitarian socio-econom repercuss covid-19 pandemic.",1
1,"state society, demonstr commitment, compass courag take hard decis start direct peac talk taliban. won’t enough. sustain afghanistan, must get root terror problem blight region address global phenomenon, threat, is.",1
2,global crisi caus covid-19 also highlight sever gender inequality.,1
2,"regard, pleas note govern kingdom eswatini adopt numer pro-gend polici promot gender equality. femal represent posit power decision-mak compar favor within region.",1
0,"econom commiss latin america caribbean  eclac  forecast gross domest product  gdp  caribbean contract 6.9 per cent 2020, effect covid-19 economies.",1
2,"region tragic histori dictatorships, oppress militari conflicts. despit difficult legaci still haunt region, signific progress made past two decades, larg thank cycl reform trigger ongo nato european union enlarg processes.",1
0,"renew commit expect deliv concret result key benchmark relat democrat function rule law, reflect crossparti polit consensu serv overal stabil country.",1
2,"shall focu today challeng pose specif digit revolut climat change. must har new digit technolog benefit societi whilst mitig possibl neg impact. covid-19 acceler deploy artifici intelligence, robotics, digit payments, e-govern services, remot work.",1
2,"thankfully, still confirm suspect case covid-19 vanuatu. earli border closur gave us preciou window prepar health responses, also come seriou econom social costs. top that, april, countri hit yet anoth severe, categori five tropic cyclone. sever compound disast alreadi left endur scar families, commun nation. limit resourc strain ongo recoveri effort previou disasters. ever loom threat futur disast extrem weather events, fuell exacerb climat change. even so, experi assur us work together, recover, build back better emerg stronger resilient.",1
2,"field develop assist develop countri least develop countries, support countri affect neg impact climat change, qatar fulfil pledg provid contribut $100 million support least develop countri small island develop state deal climat change.",1
2,cultur heritag azerbaijani peopl territori today’ armenia demolish plundered. armenia also destroy azerbaijani histor religi monument occupi territories. aim eras azerbaijani trace there.,1
1,immens effort need contrast health emerg global econom contract result unpreced structur challeng country. succeed re-establish previou level wealth health intern solidar tremend effort peopl,1
2,calam vividli reveal humanity’ vulnerability.,1
2,"twenty-six year bomb argentin israelit mutual associ headquarters, wish maintain polici initi 2003 continu thereafter. call author islam republ iran cooper argentin judici author order make progress investig attack.",1
1,"coronaviru pandem certainli mark year world, brought us challeng could even imagin that. taking, already, hundr hundr thousand lives, pandem sown misfortun throughout world  aggriev numer families, whose pain truli sympath with.",1
1,speech would complet without strong appeal get rid weapon all. pose existenti threat life planet caus tremend human suffering.,1
0,"base moral legal respons toward peoples, affirmed, continu reaffirm, uncondit dialogu base common interest respect sovereignti state way solv crisi start illeg blockade, whose solut start lift blockade.",1
2,"rage war sisterli yemen still demolish urban build yemen, wipe necess life, threaten secur region, affirm way resolv crisi negoti yemeni accord outcom nation dialogue, gulf initiative, relev secur council resolutions, particularly, resolut 2216  2015 . affirm firm posit uniti yemen territori integrity.",1
2,"see partner stakehold nation intern level one key factor acceler implement 2030 agenda. middle-incom country, belaru believ separ un strategi promot sustain develop — line similar document group develop countri — necessari success achiev sustain develop goal categori states.",1
0,"framework covid-19 response, first case diseas diagnosed, 6 march, togo set crisi committee, person chair presid republic, nation coordin response, manag committe scientif committee. view disease’ long-term socioeconom impact, govern also launch nation solidar econom recoveri fund total 400 billion cfa francs, approxim $665 million. measur taken involv prevent social distancing, case detection, compulsori wear mask educ awareness-rais among population. also shut variou area country, establish curfew, close borders, school univers ban gatherings.",1
2,"must allow crisi becom excus suppress human right liberties. must make sure limit must proportionate, time-limit legal sound. principl must appli universally.",1
1,"year ago gener assembly, mention urgent need chang format said fail so, assembl would becom irrelevant. subsequently, format gener assembl chang slightly, changed. chang caus histor pandemic, changed. result change? assembl becom even irrelevant. year becom irrelev relev even discussed.",1
0,"samoa’ long-term vision improv qualiti life mirror un 2030 agenda, critic roadmap uphold three pillar un. achiev sdg take us closer world envisag founder organis 75 year ago, futur want joined.",1
0,"realist plan build strength country, health social protect system, educ model country’ high level public safety, histor uniqueness, cultur divers privileg natur environment. however, plan also identifies, one would expect, aspect need improv base belief sustain — understood transvers sens — main guid line polit action. reason, develop roadmap awar impact action taken moment effect endur way beyond present time. action line sustain develop goals, govern institut must main catalyst chang promot unit nations.",1
0,"sars-cov-2 pandem forc us unimagin situations. world brought sudden halt week first victim covid-19 announced: schools, factories, offices, roads, stadia etc. felt silent order fight invis enemi also allow us see world would never again.",1
0,"effect climat chang lead inter alia food insecurity, large- scale displacement, social tensions, exacerbating, prolong contribut risk futur conflicts. although greenhous ga emiss project drop 6 per cent 2020, air qualiti improv result travel ban econom slowdown result pandemic, global commun far track meet either 1.5 2°c target call pari agreement. decad 2010 2019 warmest decad ever. govern privat sector must acceler transit climat relationship environ make transform chang economies.",1
1,"albania’ osc chairmanship 2020 tangibl demonstr steadfast commit promot intern peac secur dialogu multilater co-operation, time rais tension polarisation.",1
2,"addition, also in-countri test capacity. possibl assist people’ republ china australia, may add manifest theme. said, put place standard oper procedur differ sector guid us deal global pandemic. object two-fold. number one prioriti protect countri keep viru breach borders. second object keep economi afloat. confid viru breach border contain manag quarantin stations.",1
0,"iron countri repres today provid advic small island develop state increas resilience, take decis area significantli undermin efforts. secret greatest contributor climat crisi bear consequ proportionally, consequ incentiv decreas greenhous ga emissions.",1
1,"act uniti manag keep number case low. today, record 261 posit cases, 192 recovered. mortal covid-19 remain zero.",1
1,"success joint concert action aim prevent resolut conflicts, explor peac way address crise confrontations, first foremost depend effect use prevent diplomaci mediation.",1
2,"year, due low precipit winter seen signific declin water stock region’ rivers, turn led low-wat season irrig caus sever drought.",1
1,owe support un member state abl reviv strengthen global water agenda past decades.,1
0,"part, govern continu empow uplift poor varieti poverti erad programmes. programm equip enabl beneficiari start micro small scale enterpris better survival. programm uplift beneficiari poverti sustain incom generation, creation sustenance.",1
2,"whilst deal pandem global proportions, solomon island continu battl increment effect climat chang neg impact livelihoods, secur wellb solomon islanders. climat chang result chang weather pattern caus anomali weather event epic proportions. additionally, climat chang result warm global temperatur melt ice cap caus sea level rise. sea level rise abnorm weather event wreak havoc infrastructur home mention threaten food secur lives. earlier year, experienc traumat effect tropic cyclon harold. allow thank develop partner step assist us disaster.",1
2,"consequently, south-south cooperation, exclus north-south relations, explor expand articul promot collect econom busi interests.",1
0,call intern commun make seriou urgent commit end immin catastroph surround fso safer oil tanker. houthi militia refus grant unit nation access oil tanker repair maintenance.,1
1,"coronaviru continu spread across world, hit one countri other, infect million people, take hundr thousand lives. moreover, covid-19 caus widespread fear future. pandem health crisis, also humanitarian secur crisis, accentu pre-exist structur problem within among nations, coronaviru assail commun around world drove global economi downturn whose long-term effect cannot yet fulli assessed. human impact lockdown suspens social econom activ disproportion felt vulner countri groups, includ indigen peoples, ethnic minorities, person disabilities, women children. inadequ health system  gap social protect  structur inequ  environment degrad  climat crisis: pandem show us fragil world. unit nation lead respons health crisis, also expand mean lifesav humanitarian assist establish instrument rapid respons socio-econom impact.",1
2,"assess way forward achiev agre sustain develop goal 2030 midst global covid-19 pandemic, must also re-examin futur want unit nation need attain it. covid-19 devast lesson loudest possibl wake-up call need global cooperation, effect partnership firm commit multilater confront together. covid-19 recogn borders, nationality, gender econom statu nation individu — equal victims. therefore, unifi solut must found protect everi human it.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem done us world war ii gener us — immens human cost phenomenon global impact then, now, forc pay attent take unpreced action.",1
1,"take care citizens, find true basi cooperation.",1
0,"build scientific, industri clinic experi doctor russia promptli develop rang test system medicin detect treat coronavirus, well regist world’ first vaccine, “sputnik-v.”",1
2,"also success defeat menac global terror effort brave arm forc collabor amisom intern partner make world safer place. confid government’ effort continu support import intern partners, somalia confront covid-19 contribut posit multilater effort requir make world better, resili equal place all.",1
0,"increas invest purpos infrastructur gener econom product improv standard living. construct resurfac roads, expand access carbon-neutr energi off-grid locations, extend ict penetration, improv access potabl water sanit facilities.",1
0,current pandem exacerb exist discrimin inequ risk sexual gender-bas violence. disproportion impact women’ girls’ access essenti health services. robust fund sexual reproduct health right must priority.,1
1,"desir peac achiev israel’ full commit term refer decis intern legitimaci accept arab upon arab peac initi based, israel tri circumv act palestinian caus exist. arrang base term refer achiev peace, even call peace. may intent solut palestinian cause, achiev comprehensive, last peace.",1
1,"commemor seventy-fifth anniversari unit nation year, fit note institut made great progress area peacebuilding, respect human right promot truli sustain development, despit prejudic overcome. one organization’ major achiev area promot peac security, peacekeep oper help save mani live restor stabil secur world plagu conflict emerg threat terror violent extremism. peacekeep operations, one major troop-contribut countri togo activ participant, enhanc improv time. right occas welcom fact move resolut increasingli toward prevent multidimension approach.",1
2,"reduct food loss wast underpin achiev sustain develop three dimens — economic, social environmental. food- relat sustain practic innov solut instrument number major delic issues, poverti alleviation, hunger erad human health. san marino deem crucial curb food loss waste, sustain product consumpt practices. order achiev this, must recognis collect relev issues, emphasis need immedi effect action. why, togeth princip andorra, san marino 2019 sponsor resolut design 29 septemb intern day awar food loss waste.",1
2,"“chad call arm movement join process order achiev comprehens last peace, sudanes peopl greatli need.",1
0,"next step way becom withdraw unlaw militari format armament occupi territories, return control state border, and, finally, restor territori integr ukrain within intern recogn borders.",1
0,"burkina faso thank un secretary-gener global call solidarity, launch 31 march 2020. call enabl establish global framework aim promot integr flexibl response, order make best use un system’ global footprint.",1
0,speech would complet without strong appeal get rid weapon all. pose existenti threat life planet caus tremend human suffering.,1
0,first time un gener assembly’ 75-year histori world leader gather person. decis proceed high level week larg virtual testament commit multilater un.,1
1,geopolit tension palpabl conflict way loom variou corner globe. health crisi exacerb tensions.,1
2,"order continu activ particip creat stabil security, albania present candidatur elect non-perman member secur council, mandat 2022-2023.",1
1,"assembl aware, sudan undergo transit phase follow gloriou popular revolut injustice, tyranni socioeconom decline. transit govern address broad aspir sudanes peopl tri utmost tackl new challeng import establish peac econom reform.",1
2,"we, un institution, chang grow it. convinc best address global challeng joint action.",1
1,"liber democracy, we’r also commit promot univers valu like human rights, gender equal rule law.",1
1,"alongwith govern assistance, collect fund distribut amount 2.5 billion taka among orphans, poor students, madrasas, mosques, temples, school teachers, artists, journalist otherwis includ government’ assist programmes. result, impact pandem among peopl minimal.",1
1,"african continent, respons coronaviru swift effective. continent strategi fight pandem driven region econom communities. african union establish covid-19 respons fund launch ground-break african medic suppli platform ensur countri access necessari equip supplies.",1
2,"theme 75th gener assembl call us, member state unit nations, come togeth frame futur want. vanuatu, extraordinarili difficult year backdrop start next phase nation building, mark independ celebr culmin ldc graduat months. hope share experi contribut global learn navig current crisi work togeth pursuit sustain peac sustain development. emerg grip covid-19, continu align nation global recoveri exist commit reorient growth model one sustain greener nature.",1
2,"finally, could fail express appreci mr. antonio guterres, secretary-gener unit nations, competence, selflessness, zeal led organization.",1
1,"keep repeat statement terror constant danger stabil prosper across world one main threat intern peac security. unfortunately, some, many, act statements. relev secur council resolut yet find way un archiv implementation. joint action haven’t risen meet threat pose terrorism. contrary, invest in, support, fuel terrorism, move terrorist one region anoth one countri another, servic suspici agendas.",1
2,"sinc join un 1955 austria proud honour contribut areas. whether 60 year peacekeeping, member — current presid — human right council. austria continu part readi assum responsibilities. particular reason, candid un secur council 2027-2028 hope support.",1
2,"marin environ resourc remain critic livelihood peopl trinidad tobago, sustain development. govern ocean continu priority. unfortunately, result global pandemic, fourth session intergovernment confer intern legal bind instrument unit nation convent law sea conserv sustain use marin biolog divers area beyond nation jurisdiction, postponed. given critic stage negotiations, trinidad tobago remain hope earli resumption, success complet would redound benefit humankind.",1
1,"armenia countri oppos initi hold special session un gener assembl respons covid-19, wherea armenia, situat coronaviru desperate. armenia object initi azerbaijan launch it. object endeavor product irrat thought. anoth demonstr polici “azerbaijanophobia” prevail armenia promot government. hatr azerbaijani peopl instil young generation.",1
0,"also hope, because, ever, seen flourish valu solidar empathy, sincer recognit health healthcar professionals, sens civil respons popul favor common interest, well increas ecolog awareness.",1
1,"also express concern regard vulner conflict area coronaviru pandemic, area least prepar address danger.",1
1,"pandemic, highest emphasi place food production. time, taken measur ensur adequ suppli nutrit people. special arrang made keep industri run proper market agricultur product industri output full complianc health guidelines. consequently, health sector economi still compar better shape. despit covid-19-induc stagnat global industri outputs, gdp regist growth rate 5.24 per cent, expect 7 per centin next fiscal year.",1
0,"twenty-six year bomb argentin israelit mutual associ headquarters, wish maintain polici initi 2003 continu thereafter. call author islam republ iran cooper argentin judici author order make progress investig attack.",1
1,"“the leader g20 favour multilater organ make loan favour interest rate allevi debt countri highli indebted, defer forgiv it. occur, payment imposs fiscal space compromised. except measur requir confront unpreced crisis. progress without intern cooper solidarity.”",1
0,interfer intern affair sanction restrict measur belaru opposit effect harm absolut everyone. alreadi experienc past.,1
1,"12 juli 2020, armenia perpetr anoth provoc along state border. militari servicemen 76-year-old civilian kill due artilleri bombard azerbaijan’ tovuz district, extens damag done civilian infrastructure.",1
2,"addition, propos adopt special resolut unit nation gener assembl enhanc role parliament achiev sustain develop goal ensur human rights.",1
2,futur multilater depend transform global respons covid 19 pandemic.,1
0,"juli escalation, call intern commun mostli respect ceasefire, dialogu restraint. turkey, however, much line destabil polici power project neighbor regions, includ east mediterranean, north africa middl east, spare effort fuel tension south caucasus, well. unilater support azerbaijan expans militari presenc there, turkey undermin effort peac stabil region, well effort osc minsk group co-chair end. turkey directli threaten armenia put show aggress militari postur way provoc joint militari drill azerbaijan close vicin armenia nagorno karabakh. turkey build polici region tradit kinship, exploit conflicts, justif armenian genocid impun crime. turkey pose secur threat armenia region. context, armenia continu activ engag region intern effort maintain peac secur dialogu cooperation.",1
2,"accordingly, belaru advoc support pragmat initi within un order fulli realiz potenti organ maintain intern peac security.",1
0,"must advanc principl green circular economies, sake environment sustain opportun job creation econom growth.",1
2,"“in regard, import continu work strengthen coher goal activ initi support g-5 sahel order respond effect challeng produc tangibl result ground term secur development.",1
1,"unit kingdom persist attitud ignor call resum negoti territori disput aggrav disput call illeg unilater exploit renew non-renew natur resourc area, run counter gener assembl resolut 31 49.",1
1,"second, unit nation charter fundament principl intern law must upheld advanc norm behavior countri contemporari intern relations. must resolut persever advanc cooper friendship counter conflict hostility. must choos dialogu confrontation, peac settlement disput unilater act imposition. spirit, viet nam call remov unilater sanction advers affect countries’ socio-econom develop people’ livelihoods, especi embargo impos upon cuba.",1
2,"yes, today speak first new danger face human twenty-first century. short time, covid-19 becom real perhap threaten challeng time. global challeng recogn borders, races, nationalities, detriment effect sphere civiliz development. perhap whole world felt vulner common threat sever first time mani decades. hope believ uniti solidar overcom defeat allow mankind becom renewed, wiser, respons farsight battle. even though current period difficult controversi give us chanc chang better sake entir planet’ destiny. highest polit moral duti miss chance, show dignity, solidar true humanism.",1
1,"unit nation world econom situat prospect  wesp  mid 2020 report, confirm leader commun experienced, pandem unleash health econom crisi unpreced scope magnitude.",1
1,"regard, wish share zambian govern launch multi sector youth empower programm support young entrepreneurs. multi-sector approach help ensur programm activ empow creat employ opportun youth mainstream across sectors.",1
1,"need pay special attent need vulner groups, especi young people. econom effect result pandem lead increas number unemploy young people, prompt flee countri origin.",1
0,"success avert crisis, need respons leadership. ultim respons govern polit leader make decis base fact knowledge, polit calcul selfish interest power. opposit — incompetence, disinform popul — fatal consequences.",1
1,"must seiz opportun un’ 75th anniversari present current covid-19 pandem reinvigor rules-bas multilater system. chanc collect recreat condit inclus econom growth envis 2030 agenda sustain development. need strengthen collect abil respond futur shocks, covid-19 clear present exampl shock, need abl respond multilater system.",1
0,"terror violent extrem continu repres one seriou threat nation peopl intern peac security. scourg worsen exploit ongo crise activ organ crime certain countri regions. threat target state themselves, social cohes effort develop democracy.",1
2,"grate theme chosen session: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”. theme give member state opportun construct contribut work gener assembly. covid-19 pandem probabl one arduou challeng histori unit nations. surely, violent blow countri endur — still endur — long time. one forget. san marino among countri sever affect pandemic. viru caus death last month country, reason celebrations. san marino remain one countri suffer highest rate infect world, dramat consequ community.",1
0,"“concern tension surround great renaiss dam ethiopia, chad call brotherli govern egypt, ethiopia sudan continu priorit dialogu order reach negoti solut aegi african union.",1
2,"given magnitud impact covid-19 persist diseas burdens, aim invest health servic deliveri systems, sustain robust post covid-19 recoveri process. therefor seek addit grants, access financ technic assist develop partners, budget support, deliv much-need fiscal space.",1
0,"also applaud adoption, assembl secur council, variou covid-19-focus resolut well initi secretary-gener antonio guterr aim promot global solidar cooper fight covid-19 address impact live livelihood long term.",1
2,"million peopl around world lost job livelihood pandemic. social dialogu workplac help mitig impact pandem shape solutions. need sustain transit global labour market, issu work close presid south africa, cyril ramaphosa, co-edit ilo report futur work. sweden invit countri join global deal partnership decent work inclus growth.",1
2,"convinc today need comprehensive, systemat purpos multilater cooper problem danger viral diseases, full launch scientif diplomaci channels. regard, turkmenistan propos consid develop establish appropri intern instruments.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem also take toll human rights, deepen pre exist inequ enhanc vulnerabilities. must ensur comprehens consist approach human right core effort econom recovery.",1
1,"programme, incorpor sdgs, priorit health pharmaceut sovereignty, resili popul macroeconom financi stability.",1
1,"shape share futur direct fulfil promis us take unpreced act cooper coordin action level global village’ community, economi governance.",1
2,"part, govern continu empow uplift poor varieti poverti erad programmes. programm equip enabl beneficiari start micro small scale enterpris better survival. programm uplift beneficiari poverti sustain incom generation, creation sustenance.",1
2,"good reason, first time high week gener assembly’ commemor session held unusu format.",1
0,kosova establish solid constitut legal framework provid unpreced protect right minor cultur heritage. fulli line often exce relev european acqui term human right protection.,1
0,"pandem threat intern peac security. sweden eu strongli support implement secretary-general’ call global ceasefire. un secur council enorm responsibility. succeed mandat task up-hold intern peac security, must reform effect address current futur challenges.",1
0,"good reason, first time high week gener assembly’ commemor session held unusu format.",1
0,"pandemic, experienc togeth vital element state capacity, effect govern resili are.",1
0,"although illeg interfer destabil yemen’ secur years, strongli believ stabil yemen restored, especi within current environ could lead complet ceasefir perman polit solut auspic unit nations. regard, affirm decis pursu polit process yemen yemeni decision. countri also commend tremend effort made brotherli kingdom saudi arabia. reiter uae’ support riyadh agreement call unit yemeni posit order reach sustain solution.",1
2,"countri also continu call peac settlement disputes. context, reiter uae’ firm posit legitim right sovereignti three islands: greater tunb, lesser tunb, abu musa, occupi iran flagrant violat intern law un charter, total disregard histor record clearli affirm uae’ ownership island island arab rule sinc ancient times. therefore, uae give demand iran return island right owners. countri call iran peac resolv issu direct negotiations, intern court justice. however, iran answer calls.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem acceler government’ thrust toward digit transform public sector. adjust new normal, quickli adapt utilis remot platform conduct busi instead tradit in-person meetings. optimist greater relianc digit platform result opportun young peopl field relat cyber technolog cyber security.",1
2,"continu work industri sector achiev net-zero emissions, least within “leadership group industri transition” launch india last year’ climat summit. call ambiti nation determin contribut pari agreement. work ambiti outcom cop26 glasgow.",1
0,"violenc warfar also evolved, evolut afghan wit suffer real time. living, dying, insid 5th wave global terrorism, global terrorist network close link global crimin networks, make warfar total unconvent peace-build even challenge.",1
1,"though juri still reforms, deleg observ manag reform brought improv organisation’ crisi response. nonetheless believ remain done, encourag gener assembl princip organ step reform efforts.",1
1,"empower women girl central mygovernment’ medium-term nation develop plan. establish standalon ministri gender children’ affairs, develop nation gender equal women’ empower policy, support entrepreneurship econom inclusion,impl affirm polici women girl sectorsfrom educ agriculture, promot women’ health reduc matern child mortality, toughen sexual offenc laws, introduc one stop centr rape sexual offenc model courts.",1
2,"“in addit incalcul health human toll, pandem left indel mark global economy. across world, countri suffer sudden shock economies. beyond immedi challeng current crisis, need greater focu recoveri epidemic. impact covid-19 mitig act immedi collectively. applaud effort variou intern region organizations, unit nations, world health organization, movement non-align countries, african union  au , commonwealth, intergovernment author develop  igad  east african commun  eac , among others, deal pandemic.",1
0,"pandem shed new light humanity’ need strengthen multilater system, base principl ideal enshrin un charter intern law.",1
1,"turkmenistan activ began take necessari measur counter threat begin spread pandem world. effect protect measur taken time, unifi nation strategi combat coronaviru infect formed, consist set measur organizational, legal, financial, economic, medic sanitari quarantin character.",1
1,"“at intern level, welcom ceasefir libya, declar simultan presid presid council govern nation accord speaker hous representatives. chad reiter call secur council shoulder respons end extern interference. urg libyan stakehold respect ceasefir resolut engag process inclus negoti lead true nation reconciliation.",1
1,"venezuela, tell you, necessari guarante hold parliamentari elect invit world join us, wit live democracy, noth nobodi abl take away venezuelan peopl right elect new legisl power, sinc fundament tool collect exist express origin power. one decid us venezuelan  interven intend case — ever — nation, respect thu demand respect.",1
2,"believ multilater allow us overcom enorm challeng face world. indeed, health crisi caus covid-19 pandem ravag world shown us combin effort intern solidar help us mitig nefari worldwid impacts.",1
1,"wetlands, area larger mani european countries, california, face problems. larg fire inevit consequ high local temperatur coupl accumul decay organ matter.",1
2,"global crise like covid-19 pandem provid opportun renew challeng overcome. seen devast health econom impact viru feel live pain results. nation, matter well resourced, immune. yet, despit common suffer pain, fear covid-19 has, continu to, exacerb alreadi exist gulf developed, develop fragil state make un family. someth must avoid cost tackl today’ major global challenges, includ insecurity, climat change, poverti increas inequality, driver much divis discont across world, depend effect cooper multilater action bring sustain develop goal fruition.",1
1,"romania pay particular attent youth, especi far educ profession train concerned. such, doubl number scholarship offer foreign citizen 2020-2021 academ year, particular attent africa. believ ensur continu youth training, contribut materi “build back better” principle.",1
0,"unit nation continu broaden sphere action recent years: rang improv people’ live condit development-rel matter becom key element multilater agenda. develop view formula erad poverty, fight inequ injustice, initi climat action. clear pandem worsen situation, must also serv incent push paradigm change, govern andorra convinc right moment build better greener world, nation level, approach sustain transvers manner main line polit action, intern level within area cooper  world must sustain ceas be.",1
2,"said, covid-19 pandem catalys alreadi unsustain live condit thousand migrant so-cal host countries, report worsen abandon lack respons attent author countries. fragil social protect system countri becom evident, sometim present social econom models. wonder again, possible, despit great amount dollar given govern extravag donor recruit confer venezuelan migrants? money? govern steal it? believ must certainli review, institut scientif rigour role unit nation agencies, peopl agencies, play processes, unhcr intern organ migrat  iom .",1
1,"therefore, rostrum call enhanc cooper strengthen collect action mechan that, together, may face challeng pose spread covid-19 pandemic. must strive achiev session’ theme: “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilater — confront covid-19 effect multilater action”.",1
0,5.	the deliveri comprehens financi technic assist develop countri intern organ develop least develop countri monitor preserv glacier sourc water.,1
2,"talks, afghan peopl clear urgent priority: ceasefire. urgent end violenc will, anyth else, give us chanc progress.",1
0,"2019, brazil victim crimin seepag venezuelan oil, sold without proper control, result seriou damag environ major loss fish tourism industries.",1
1,pain lesson learn sinc outbreak pandem underscor urgent need continu collect approaches.,1
1,"grow broad support common african posit evid recent intergovernment negoti member state express affirm call correct histor injustic done africa. vein, would like encourag assembl address long-stand injustic adopt africa’ demand outlin ezulwini consensu sirt declaration. look forward construct engag build progress made past order achiev comprehens reform secur council session.",1
1,"path post-covid-19 “new normal” linear. stage way, countri need balanc public health concern econom social concerns, make trade-off base uniqu nation circumstances. continu intern cooper key overcom devast impact pandem rebuilding. need build greater trust, need learn one another. also need cooper establish safe protocol order re-start travel again.",1
1,"given magnitud impact covid-19 persist diseas burdens, aim invest health servic deliveri systems, sustain robust post covid-19 recoveri process. therefor seek addit grants, access financ technic assist develop partners, budget support, deliv much-need fiscal space.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem time remind yet interconnectedness. world teeter brink uncertainties, need ‘nation unit one’. global solidar unifi respons best armour pandem socio-econom impact peopl facing. acknowledg ongo support un develop partner continu assist effort mitig impact pandemic. hope success develop vaccin equal even distribution. let us spread kind faster virus, hate, fear misinformation.",1
1,"pandemic, experienc togeth vital element state capacity, effect govern resili are.",1
0,"unlimit support brother kingdom saudi arabia, made much progress implement riyadh agreement, aim establish stabil enabl us address regrett event took place provision capital, aden, august 2019. done utmost facilit implement agreement believ must pool effort ensur reconstruct development, auspic state. reiter trust brother kingdom saudi arabia continu implement agreement.",1
1,"common accept multilater diplomaci underpin advanc three pillar unit nations, namely, sustain development, peac secur human rights, interlink mutual reinforcing, observ respect specif mandat charter unit nations.",1
0,"1945, unit nation emerg ruin devast war history. organ led way tackl univers challeng creat institut framework made signific progress area import human rights, poverti eradication, consolid democrat institutions, fight climat chang promot sustain development, also provid protect vulner arm conflicts. thank multilateralism, unit nation often abl reach area tradit diplomaci not. even time present one, pandem expos weak states, unit nation continu see cooper antidot confrontation. perspective, would like highlight work organ carri out, especi secretari general, within context fragil present situat which, unfortunately, share mani common point scenario led found unit nations.",1
1,"third, covid-19 pandem serv stern warn us all, requir stronger commit stronger action promot sustainable, inclus human-cent development. 2030 agenda sustain develop continu framework cooper overcom pandem sustain recovery. polici action interest peopl heart, one, country, left behind. develop countri receiv financi assistance, technolog commerci facilit realiz sustain develop goals.",1
2,"venezuela recogn that, 75 years, unit nation organ given great contribut humanity. however, demand effort preserv achievements, advanc new objectives. insist need strengthen south-south cooper creat altern mechan financ technic support back initi prioriti defin peopl achiev sustain develop goals. time urgent task everi day counts. “the south also thinks, south also matters, south also exists”, poet benedetti said, centenni presence.",1
1,"podium call intensif global effort confront great challeng face human area climat change, poverty, organ crime, spread epidemics, challeng requir strengthen cooper work bright futur gener come may live stability, peace, security.",1
1,"2020 mark “year delivery” power sustain develop kingdom attain 50 per cent renew energi penetration, project delay caus global pandemic, sudden halt market suppli chains, led major disrupt tonga’ ndc achiev target.",1
0,"may speak plainly, insuffici today. necessari detail work save aral sea concret practic assist support provid peopl live there. thus, strongli believ that, subject aral sea need systemat comprehens approach well relev legal document issu set separ direct un activities. regard, turkmenistan put forward initi creat special program aral sea basin.",1
0,"undoubtedly, last year prove ukrain realli strive peace. manag unblock dialogue, resum meet normandi format leaders, made substanti progress mutual releas detain persons. start 27 july, comprehens ceasefir place, which, despit attempt disrupt it, still give hope achiev sustain ceasefire. badli need keep move toward genuin peace.",1
2,commenc cooper intern organ region partner institut elabor two strategi paper new period clear evid success achiev direction.,1
0,reason problem exist region today one-sid step taken greec greek cypriot sinc 2003 maximalist demands.,1
2,"therefore, order ensur proper recoveri economi ensur global sociopolit stability, need focu intern solidar cooperation.",1
0,simpl reason “intern community” develop common approach. therefor probabl pandem someth else.,1
2,"last month, hundr afghan kill injured, entir home livelihood destroyed, massiv flood water rip provinc parwan 13 provinces. two year before, extrem — drought — led us nation-wid wheat shortag upend livelihood major popul reli job agricultur put food tables.",1
0,"aggress azerbaijan, armenia continu face deep demographic, social econom crisis. regim chang happen armenia two year ago, fascist ideolog fail state remain unchanged.",1
2,"come decades, prosper close link digit literaci access high-spe connectivity. secretary-general’ roadmap digit cooper compel farsighted, build work broadband commiss initiatives.",1
0,"botswana, semi-arid countri errat rainfal frequent droughts, attach great import goal 13  climat action . climat condit affect livelihood imped food production. moreover, recent drought result dri water sourc includ wildlife. contribut anim death escal human-wildlif conflict.",1
2,"however, econom financi indic countri sever neg consequ covid-19 call question time implement sustain develop goals, particularli develop countries.",1
2,"allow conclud reaffirm commit revit post covid-19 multilater support theme session. multilater compris global solidar cooperation, empathy, inclus resilience, note import protect vulner individuals, address inequ ensur univers access afford covid-19 medic vaccine, build back better, leav one behind.mr. president,",1
2,"also welcom hold summit biodiversity, take place next week. express commit promot strategi practic sustain use biolog divers natur resources, develop mechan improv manag use.",1
1,"creation access covid tool accelerator, includ covax global vaccin facility, critic import africa. ensur equit access vaccines, therapeutics, diagnost speed end pandem everyone.",1
0,australia support who’ effort develop global framework vaccin therapeut alloc fairly.,1
0,"addition, propos adopt special resolut unit nation gener assembl enhanc role parliament achiev sustain develop goal ensur human rights.",1
2,"would like start intervent congratul excel mr. volkan bozkir elect presid gener assembly, would also like congratul secretari general, antonio guterres, secretariat unit nations. celebr 75th anniversari unit nation great assembl peopl world, creat primari object construct multilater way implement system valu code conduct base cooperation, undoubtedli rememb year sars-cov-2 coronaviru pandem shook pillar societies.",1
1,"mr. president, futur want peopl one move ahead common support solut challeng emerge, order achiev sustain inclus development, right respect opportun offer develop everi citizen world, leav one behind.",1
0,"invest huge effort order help surviv economy, firstli thank disciplin respons manag public finance. despit crisi effects, serbia excel result economi first two quarter year strong reason believ end year remain among stabl economi europe.",1
2,"tonga continu recogn import ocean-clim nexus, continu note grave concern detriment impact climat chang marin environment.",1
0,"urg intern commun continu seek new multilater approach facilit orderli debt restructur ensur increas access public policy, address pandem sustain inclus growth.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem present existenti threat unmatch proport human health safeti around world. overwhelm health sectors, disturb global trade food suppli chains, crush travel leisur industri well disrupt basic livelihood peopl around world. alarmingli pandem intensifi vulner small economi render us suscept exogen shocks. further, covid-19 threaten revers gains, societi achiev toward attain sustain develop goal  sdg  targets.",1
1,"us, sdg reson well development plan base principl gnh. reason, bhutan track becom earli achiev sdgs, shown voluntari review 2018.",1
1,"fight plastic pollution, worrisom tonga note alarm 12 million tonn plastic wast leak ocean annually. place great interest address threat begin process ban single-us plastics. nation region problem, also global problem, requir global solution.",1
0,"success joint concert action aim prevent resolut conflicts, explor peac way address crise confrontations, first foremost depend effect use prevent diplomaci mediation.",1
0,"see need review whole sdgs, pandem also derail us ldc graduat track. current plan design help bhutan graduat ldc categori 2023. everyth changed, focu shift save live livelihood challeng pose pandemic.",1
2,"topic year’ debat remind us import multilater found princip unit nations. firmli believ joint actions, mutual harmon respect, answer found face global challeng ongo pandem communic diseas covid-19.",1
2,power imbal caus world lose equilibrium.,1
0,"zimbabw new path. like nation region, face humanitarian challeng case worsen illeg sanctions, neg impact climat change, compound outbreak covid-19 pandemic.",1
1,"thank govern peopl unit states, help us transform public system 31 intens care unit one 1,000 multifunct units, send us 600 respirators, time short suppli world.",1
0,"today, year commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, andorra want add voic support organ repres essenc multilateralism, recent year manag preserv initi spirit evolv time. now, ever, must appeal recogn spirit vision un’ founders, abl overcom obstacl terribl war well differ opinion order preserv mankind.",1
2,"establish owe virus’ highli contagi nature, prevent measur take today suffici counter eventu elimin it. vaccin therefor continu last solution. regard, countri encourag research way throughout world achiev goal. although promising, alreadi deal issu access futur vaccines. true pharmaceut compani commit enorm financi resourc end, must sacrific human econom profit. therefor need ensur access futur covid-19 vaccin equitable, afford subject market forces. accordingly, welcom adopt resolut wha73.1 gener assembl world health organ  , pursuant member state provid full access vaccin relat medicin shall timely, equitable, high quality, safe afford all. countri also welcom covax facil initi launch — mechan group purchas eventu covid-19 vaccines, coordin global allianc vaccin immun — guarante everi particip countri fair equit access vaccin alloc framework intend set up.",1
2,"year 2020 undoubtedli rememb dark time, indel mark pandemic, whose devast effect everi aspect live demonstr — need demonstr — collect vulnerability.",1
0,"also respons intern commun stop bloodsh yemen, continu five years, stop humanitarian crisis.",1
1,"second, bifurc shrink global pool knowledg reduc opportun share benefit research innovation. countri open share scientif knowledg abl produc test kit quickli pandem earli phase. prime minist said global vaccin summit last june, need vaccin multilateralism. need greater intern cooper ensur equit univers access covid-19 vaccin",1
0,"yes, politicians, duti protect citizens. but, viru distinguish unilateralist multilateralists. covid-19 one safe, everyon safe. we, therefore, avoid form “vaccin nationalism”. develop vaccin becom new race moon.",1
2,"also thank state peopl japan, without whose help would never abl establish largest hospit region one advanc largest hospit treat coronaviru diseas world. forev grate deep admir govern great peopl japan, societi exemplifi give servic world.",1
2,"one singl resourc financ product sector recoveri diverted, given current context, serv need biosafeti necess urgent epidemiolog natur brought pandemic.",1
2,live tri unparallel times. never leader requir make hard decis close border provid near absolut guarante peopl arriv covid-19 pandem limit commun transmiss virus. uncertainti face test mettl nation govern like never before. samoa extend sincer condol un famili live lost due pandem pay tribut selfless servic frontlin worker risk live bring covid-19 control.,1
2,"addition, must work togeth ensur avail access essenti health-car services, particular qualiti primari care, key achiev 2030 agenda sustain development, especi sustain develop goal 3.",1
2,"warn stem realiti experience. tension yemen, syria, libya, iraq state relat blatant interfer arab affair made state incit strife discord, histor delus restor domin coloni rule arab region horn africa. result brutal wars. context, recal firm posit reject region interfer arab affairs, request full respect sovereignty, fulli consist intern law intern norms.",1
1,"magnitud public health emerg requir unpreced mobil resources. govern institutions, civil social organ invest great energi fight covid-19. however, first respons heroic effort come health professionals. therefore, would like take advantag gener debat unit nation vindic work. demonstr profession value, also shown immens human quality, because, unfortunately, viru often depriv us contact accompani person near us, necessari moment difficulty. however, spite all, men women health servic provid constant support peopl famili live adversity.",1
2,"respons leadership also mean willing seeth common global interest. preserv best exist architectur intern organ regim cooperation. often driver effect solutions. know work alway perfect. instead resent defund them, need find way improv them.",1
2,"mani situat need consid observ transvers manner  gender equality, attent children young people, particip protect elderly, non-discrimin peopl disabilities. realiti present, uncertainti futur experi past shown us need teach valu invest effort ensur school abl appli meet increasingli greater demands. success societi base growth human capit educ training.",1
2,"approach, though tested, save live livelihood protected, best abl to, vulnerable.",1
2,"renew commit expect deliv concret result key benchmark relat democrat function rule law, reflect crossparti polit consensu serv overal stabil country.",1
1,"stated, covid-19 detriment botswana’ economy. suspens intern travel global econom meltdown dealt heavi blow two mainstay economi  tourism diamond mining. repeat lockdown covid-19 protocol also significantli reduc econom activity.",1
2,"therefore, take privileg opportun reaffirm support renew multilater cooper behalf peopl serve, multilateralism, solidarity, effect combat effect poverti mainten intern peac security, indispens condit inclus sustain development.",1
2,"1 million villag health volunt throughout countri play vital role patients, regardless nationality, guarante equal access medic treatment. furthermore, royal thai govern also fulli support strategi covid-19 vaccin development. thailand start vaccin research programm sinc quit time also foster collabor intern partners. regard, urg covid-19 vaccin medicin consid ‘global public goods’ access all. unit nation must play import role matter.",1
0,"econom front, econom situat continu increasingli weigh citizen result econom distort caus defunct regime. furthermore, profound reform set implement, aim remedi structur defect sudanes economy, indirectli increas cost living. reform pain arduous, necessari long term. order mitig effects, start implement social programm support famili provid direct financi aid poorest famili aim mitig effect reforms. programm also aim support product provid direct support agricultur labour group product rural urban areas. govern also support establish cooper project implement commod programme, project aim provid basic commod citizens.",1
0,"reason, along journey unit nation alway advoc multilater resolv intric problem humanity.",1
1,"also stand fratern peopl lebanon experienc humanitarian catastroph result explos port beirut, occur result hegemoni hizbollah, terrorist organ affili iran, decis make process lebanon forc arms. led disabl constitut state institut lebanon. order fratern peopl lebanon achiev aspir security, stability, prosperity, terrorist organ must disarmed.",1
0,"pandem stark remind fate interconnect one secur everyon secured. pandem larg extent kept us restrict homes. consequently, econom activ greatli hamper along health systems. bangladesh achiev gdp growth rate 8.2 per cent fiscal year 2018-2019. covid 19 pandem imped econom progress.",1
0,"take account initi secretari general, turkmenistan approv nation plan prepared prevent respons acut infecti diseas state level. plan oper social econom measur turkmenistan counteract coronaviru pandem also develop adopted.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem demonstrated, more, global challeng requir common action, solidar cooperation. must show commit “a quantum leap collect engagement”, mention secretary-general. multilater also essenti har opportun build back better greener, toward inclus sustain economies, societi „no one left behind”. order achiev that, must continu reform un, make effective, effici fit purpose. unit nation need!",1
2,"world trade organ take proactiv role work restor world economi promot trade investment. recent obtain observ statu wto, turkmenistan activ use opportun open regard promot practic measur overcom quickli crisi phenomena world economy, transit posit dynamics.",1
1,"regard, reiter urgent need reform organ achiev un secur council attend better represent peoples, nation continents.",1
1,"given experi countri gain counter terrorism, extrem illeg drug traffick view introduc tajik peac experi determin nomin first time tajikistan’ candidaci non-perman seat un secur council 2028-2029.",1
2,"furthermore, royal thai govern also introduc econom respons packag reliev financi burden peopl busi operators, whether low-incom groups, women entrepreneurs, farmers, vulner group ensur guarante equal access govern assistance. effort focus boost financi liquid entrepreneur sustain businesses. regard, set “centr econom situat administration”  cesa  act main mechan formul comprehens polici econom social rehabilit synerg effort public privat sectors.",1
0,"“with regard sudan, chad welcom sign peac agreement among sudanes parti 31 august juba thank mediat efforts, chad stakeholder, leadership presid salva kiir mayardit republ south sudan, whose person involv commend.",1
1,"commemor 75th anniversari unit nations, proper reflect are, come going. unit nation stood lofti ideal build intern system collabor common purpose. system allow us collect call account choos conflict peace, recogn digniti equal worth people. valu everi one us input make toward end.",1
2,"occas 75th anniversari unit nations, take opportun assess previou success failures. although unit nation abl solv global problem faced, becom clear multilater inclus prevent larg scale arm conflict, protect world arbitrari exercis power. therefor commit strengthen multilater system cooper framework unit nation order respond chang world situation, new global challenges, live expect new generation. unit nation desire, unit nation need.",1
0,"empower women girl central mygovernment’ medium-term nation develop plan. establish standalon ministri gender children’ affairs, develop nation gender equal women’ empower policy, support entrepreneurship econom inclusion,impl affirm polici women girl sectorsfrom educ agriculture, promot women’ health reduc matern child mortality, toughen sexual offenc laws, introduc one stop centr rape sexual offenc model courts.",1
2,"regard libyan issue, reiter welcom ceasefir agreement activ polit process accord skhirat agreement outcomes, achiev comprehens polit settlement maintain libyan sovereignty, territori integr independence, stem bloodsh peopl preserv wealth. benefici understand imposs impos militari regim forc libya.",1
1,"last month, hundr afghan kill injured, entir home livelihood destroyed, massiv flood water rip provinc parwan 13 provinces. two year before, extrem — drought — led us nation-wid wheat shortag upend livelihood major popul reli job agricultur put food tables.",1
0,"given magnitud impact covid-19 persist diseas burdens, aim invest health servic deliveri systems, sustain robust post covid-19 recoveri process. therefor seek addit grants, access financ technic assist develop partners, budget support, deliv much-need fiscal space.",1
1,first time un gener assembly’ 75-year histori world leader gather person. decis proceed high level week larg virtual testament commit multilater un.,1
0,"therefore, take privileg opportun reaffirm support renew multilater cooper behalf peopl serve, multilateralism, solidarity, effect combat effect poverti mainten intern peac security, indispens condit inclus sustain development.",1
1,"regard burundi’ presenc secur council’ agenda, alway said burundi unfairli includ secur council’ agenda polit reason self-interest certain powers, noth welfar burundian peopl way whatsoev pose threat intern peac security.",1
2,"turkmenistan strongli believ futur un continu strengthen build strateg partnership organization, therebi make contribut unlock inexhaust potenti interest global peace, secur progress.",1
1,"prior onset covid-19, young peopl alreadi three time like unemploy compar adult counterparts. pandem push global economi deeper crisis, young gener risk disproportion bear brunt mass unemploy under-protection.",1
2,"thank measur undertaken, country’ situat covid-19 remain control. citizens’ life health prioriti us, despit econom difficulti caus pandemic.",1
0,"assembl aware, sudan undergo transit phase follow gloriou popular revolut injustice, tyranni socioeconom decline. transit govern address broad aspir sudanes peopl tri utmost tackl new challeng import establish peac econom reform.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem complic situat transit government, inherit crippl economi weak devast servic sectors, particularli health sector, neglect decades.",1
1,"peoples’ expect high pressing, countri urg state assum respons meet commit take action, which, blunt, entail revit reform organization, particularli princip organs, includ secur council, order make repres better adapt demand time. firmli believ greater transparency, justice, equiti democracy, strict respect sovereign equal digniti states, particularli africa, enabl organ write new chapter existence. end, must give temptat turn inwardli nations. let us rather move forward togeth unit hope peac develop peopl remain firmli committed.mr. president,",1
1,"world trade organ take proactiv role work restor world economi promot trade investment. recent obtain observ statu wto, turkmenistan activ use opportun open regard promot practic measur overcom quickli crisi phenomena world economy, transit posit dynamics.",1
0,current crisi threaten slow even revers progress new sustain develop goals.,1
2,"small island develop states, includ tonga, contribut one percent global greenhous ga emissions, unfortun continu bear brunt climat injustice. result, pacif island countri continu imperil mani tropic cyclon unpreced magnitud destruct nature. recent one tropic cyclon harold april year wreak havoc four pacif island nations, namely, fiji, solomon islands, vanuatu, country, tonga. grappl distress effect covid-19 outbreak.",1
2,public kept inform viru talk back show covid-19 oversight committee. also inform public weekli address nation broadcast live air televised. ensur peopl kept inform step govern undertak protect country. govern continu focu build necessari health infrastructur within hospit prepar accommod person may contract virus.,1
2,"nonetheless, pandem inevit set back development aspirations. resourc redirect fight pandem set back effort provid housing, health care, water sanit educ people.",1
0,"introduc seri unpreced measur save live peopl mitig econom destruction,minimis unemploy secur workers’ incomes. ensur inclus approach factor specif need differ stakehold seychelles, consult privat sector, trade unions, civil societi inter-faith organis required.",1
0,slovenia share awar biodivers loss urgent global challenge.,1
1,"come end, year 2020 undoubtedli seen one difficult histori term public-health crisi brought coronaviru diseas  covid-19  pandemic, spread world, caus untold human suffering. expos mani unforeseen vulner among intern commun caus unpreced econom crisis. deliber assembl still search last cure plague. would like take opportun pay tribut memori victim viru commend extraordinari work healthcar worker everi countri save million lives.",1
1,"firmli believ mutual cooperation, harmon posit mutual respect, global respons face modern plagu found.",1
0,"swearing-in june excel mr. evarist ndayishimiye, presid republ burundi, culmin long-await presidenti elect burundi. elections’ peac conclusion, tanzania urg intern commun assist new govern provid much need aid econom social develop citizen burundi region large.",1
0,"12 juli 2020, armenia perpetr anoth provoc along state border. militari servicemen 76-year-old civilian kill due artilleri bombard azerbaijan’ tovuz district, extens damag done civilian infrastructure.",1
0,"view prevent spread diseas today exert massiv effort increas necessari volum medic medic equip end time undertak effect measur cooper world health organization, countri develop partners.",1
1,"romania remain firm support multilater rules-bas intern order, un core. romania commit cooper safer futur all, promot sustain development, respect human rights, peac security. futur want!",1
2,"thank govern peopl unit states, help us transform public system 31 intens care unit one 1,000 multifunct units, send us 600 respirators, time short suppli world.",1
2,"development, ten year remain acceler action achiev sustain develop goal  sdg  2030. however, covid-19 pandem one key factor delay achievement. must, therefore, work harder, cooper closer promot develop path peopl centre. must also priorit particip stakehold emphas util technolog development.",1
1,bold drastic measur commonli undertaken within intern law avoid doubl standard polici recogn yet anoth import factor tackl challenges.,1
0,"believ un prestig could strengthen enhanc role humanitarian human compon multilater bilater relations, name people-to-peopl youth exchanges, cultur ties, social educ programs, well cooper sports, science, technology, environ health protection.",1
0,"mr. president, futur want peopl one move ahead common support solut challeng emerge, order achiev sustain inclus development, right respect opportun offer develop everi citizen world, leav one behind.",1
0,"indeed, pandem unpreced impact aspect human life. address global challeng requir recommit state effect multilater intern cooper central role unit nations.",1
0,"see today ruthless escal militias, particularli governor ma’rib, al-jawf al-bayda, houthi militia engag indiscrimin militari campaign sever months. attack residenti area ballist missiles, concern whatsoev civilian live million displac peopl fled region militia’ control. terrorist militia repeatedli target civilian civilian infrastructur kingdom saudi arabia. clearli demonstr true intent view peace.",1
1,"kigali amend montreal protocol, adopt four year ago, play major role reduc consumpt hydrofluorocarbons. half member state ratifi kigali amendment, force, call upon remaind ratifi soon possible.",1
0,"key factor behind thailand’ achiev pandem control role model effect healthcar manag determin polit develop robust healthcar system univers health coverag scheme. recognis healthi popul import forc drive nation develop toward security, prosper sustainability. regard, thailand share knowledg experi interest countri foreign polici global health  fpgh  initiative.",1
2,"deliv nation address via video link may emblemat extraordinari time, it’ also sign resolv adapt make use available. so, even though moment abl travel togeth person, continu find way har collect commit vision end pandem reset planet sustain peac footing.",1
1,"pandem expos vulner today’ world highlight broad divid nation global develop efforts, high level poverti inequality, rage climat chang continu discrimin elderly, poor communities, women girls, erod social cohesion.",1
0,"take care citizens, find true basi cooperation.",1
2,"pandemic, experienc togeth vital element state capacity, effect govern resili are.",1
0,"regard libyan issue, reiter welcom ceasefir agreement activ polit process accord skhirat agreement outcomes, achiev comprehens polit settlement maintain libyan sovereignty, territori integr independence, stem bloodsh peopl preserv wealth. benefici understand imposs impos militari regim forc libya.",1
0,"last 75 years, member state painstakingli built unit nation peace, cooper development. duty-bound strengthen reinvigor world’ largest multilater organization, particularli face immens challeng opportun 21st century.",1
0,"second, unit nation charter fundament principl intern law must upheld advanc norm behavior countri contemporari intern relations. must resolut persever advanc cooper friendship counter conflict hostility. must choos dialogu confrontation, peac settlement disput unilater act imposition. spirit, viet nam call remov unilater sanction advers affect countries’ socio-econom develop people’ livelihoods, especi embargo impos upon cuba.",1
2,"take account initi secretari general, turkmenistan approv nation plan prepared prevent respons acut infecti diseas state level. plan oper social econom measur turkmenistan counteract coronaviru pandem also develop adopted.",1
1,"covid-19 pandem left devast social econom consequences. live depend accur time information. full exercis right freedom expression, access public inform protect journalist key wellb societies.",1
2,"call intern commun —especi secur council — assum legal respons oblig israel lift sieg gaza strip, put peac process back track credibl negoti base intern resolut force, address final statu issues, end occup within specifi time frame establish independ palestinian state within 1967 borders, east jerusalem capital, end isra occup arab territories.",1
0,"solv crises, especi arab region, requir take unifi intern position. posit reject violat sovereignti state interfer intern affairs. posit seek un led polit solut address threat pose terrorist group houthis, da’esh, al-qaeda muslim brotherhood. context, unit arab emir reiter support secretary-general’ appeal global ceasefire.",1
2,"twenty-f year ago, world confer women beij chart transform agenda gender equality, continu guid us. empower women made us safer wealthier. true gender equal still attain country.",1
2,"view prevent spread diseas today exert massiv effort increas necessari volum medic medic equip end time undertak effect measur cooper world health organization, countri develop partners.",1
0,"topic year’ debat remind us import multilater found princip unit nations. firmli believ joint actions, mutual harmon respect, answer found face global challeng ongo pandem communic diseas covid-19.",1
2,covid-19 pandem brought realiz directli face nations.,1
2,disarma vital import ensur global peac security.,1
2,"appreci support provid unit nation offic counter- terror partners, enhanc capac botswana’ newli establish counter terror analysi fusion agenc order enabl us mitig exposur menace.",1
2,"slowdown econom activ area privat sector caus unpreced increas unemploy prompt activ unemploy benefit programm self-employ assist programme, well social safeti programmes, includ nation food distribut program, largest feed program nation’ history.",1
1,"terrorist extremist organ find fertil ground sprout spread countri sectarian divis weak collaps state institutions. intend win battl terrorism, must waiver face countri sponsor terror sectarianism, must stand firmli face countri promot transnat extremist ideologies, reli fals polit slogan hide extremist, chaotic, destruct nature.",1
0,"talks, afghan peopl clear urgent priority: ceasefire. urgent end violenc will, anyth else, give us chanc progress.",1
1,"botswana, semi-arid countri errat rainfal frequent droughts, attach great import goal 13  climat action . climat condit affect livelihood imped food production. moreover, recent drought result dri water sourc includ wildlife. contribut anim death escal human-wildlif conflict.",1
0,"kingdom’ hand extend iran peac posit open attitud past decades, avail. kingdom receiv sever iran’ presid senior officials, among kingdom’ effort seek way build relat base good neighborli mutual respect. kingdom welcom intern effort deal iran’ nuclear program, time again, entir world wit iranian regim exploit effort order intensifi expansionist activities, creat terrorist networks, use terrorism, process squander resourc wealth iranian peopl purpos expansionist project produc noth chaos, extremism, sectarianism.",1
1,"order strengthen mitig adaptation, govern develop climat chang respons polici nation adapt plan. work civil society, academia, intern partners, acceler implement commit pari agreement.",1
0,"small island develop states, includ tonga, contribut one percent global greenhous ga emissions, unfortun continu bear brunt climat injustice. result, pacif island countri continu imperil mani tropic cyclon unpreced magnitud destruct nature. recent one tropic cyclon harold april year wreak havoc four pacif island nations, namely, fiji, solomon islands, vanuatu, country, tonga. grappl distress effect covid-19 outbreak.",1
2,"again, success respons would possibl without effect partnership government, citizen intern partners. want pay special tribut courag duti health personnel risk live save others. also recogn patienc contribut somali privat sector, work govern keep economi functioning, provid vital servic somali peopl critic hour need.",1
1,"whilst deal pandem global proportions, solomon island continu battl increment effect climat chang neg impact livelihoods, secur wellb solomon islanders. climat chang result chang weather pattern caus anomali weather event epic proportions. additionally, climat chang result warm global temperatur melt ice cap caus sea level rise. sea level rise abnorm weather event wreak havoc infrastructur home mention threaten food secur lives. earlier year, experienc traumat effect tropic cyclon harold. allow thank develop partner step assist us disaster.",1
0,post-pandem world exacerb sever refuge displac person crisi face planet region. answer promot guarante human right migrants.,1
1,"membership kosova intern organizations, unit nation included, would benefit kosova, also whole intern community.",1
0,"continu work industri sector achiev net-zero emissions, least within “leadership group industri transition” launch india last year’ climat summit. call ambiti nation determin contribut pari agreement. work ambiti outcom cop26 glasgow.",1
0,disrespect natur caus climat chang neg impact humankind. destruct ecosystem biodivers link new diseas covid-19 illustration.,1
1,"adopt constitut declar 17 august 2019 constitut second stage victori revolution, make peac put end war top prioriti transit government. basi upon juba process launched. simpli negoti two war parties, past, rather process dialogu partner revolut order achiev peac cessat war, well address root caus conflict. juba peac agreement sign 3 october.",1
2,theme chosen 75th session gener assembl pertin current moment experienc world. convinc multilater best way us combin effort togeth mitig effect econom financi crisi covid-19 pandem impos world.,1
2,"note pandemic, estim 783 million peopl live extrem poverti globally. however, june 2020, world bank project pandem could push addit 71 million peopl extrem poverti 2020, therefor revers gain made recent decades.",1
1,"context, congratul aptli chosen theme 75th session welcom opportun address assembl share perspect “the futur want, unit nation need: reaffirm collect commit multilateralism-confront covid-19 effect multilater action.” small nation like well big nation anticip even depend us share care other.",1
1,"context, pursuit vaccin multilater critic ensur univers equit access covid-19 vaccine, maximis global health impact eventu vaccine. singapor switzerland work thirteen like-mind partner friend covid 19 vaccin global access facility. covax, short. covax facil seek reduc risk facilit equit access vaccin nations.",1
1,"new kind industri revolution, combin pandemic, present challeng plan execut gathering, yet unga leadership manag creativ transform experi one efficient, effective, conveni far less risky. want congratul excel volkan bozkir assum presid 75th session unga, also success overcom particular challeng host massiv gather global leader pandemic.",1
2,"situat escal amidst pandemic, threaten life health peopl risk epidem outbreak consider risen. circumst urg world commun pay close attent problem aral sea aral sea region.",1
2,"coincid 75th anniversari unit nations, world wit critic turn point follow spread coronavirus. celebr achiev made sinc foundat unit nations, must reflect natur challeng face. today, conflict becom danger regionalized. also grow influenc extremist groups. threat cyberwar rise use sophist weapon attack strateg area increasing.",1
0,"conclusion, unit nation famili nation compris membership must work togeth renew partnership confront covid-19. must also continu engag posit creat inclus prosper futur want unit nation need. regard, we, somalia, reaffirm commit multilater overcom common global obstacl capit everi opportun creat better, safer equal world.your excellencies,",1
2,"“uganda applaud secretary-gener time appeal global ceasefir covid-19 pandemic. doubt pandem global impact aspect lives, social, econom political, almost countri across globe. arm conflict war continued, pandem made worsen situat even dire. africa’ continent subregion organ continu play critic role conflict prevent crisi continent. welcom direct partnership engag unit nation african union peac secur matters, acceler recent years. experi shown wherev intern community, unit nation particular, support region efforts, successful. encourag strengthen partnership.",1
2,"celebr 75th anniversari unit nations, need strengthen resolv ensur one left behind. ensur equal particip everi individual, irrespect gender sexual orientation, essenti realis 2030 agenda.",1
1,calam vividli reveal humanity’ vulnerability.,1
0,"we, un institution, chang grow it. convinc best address global challeng joint action.",1
0,"social protect health system cardin strengthen mitig neg effect pandem  target support provid population, sector economi businesses.",1
0,"terrorist extremist organ find fertil ground sprout spread countri sectarian divis weak collaps state institutions. intend win battl terrorism, must waiver face countri sponsor terror sectarianism, must stand firmli face countri promot transnat extremist ideologies, reli fals polit slogan hide extremist, chaotic, destruct nature.",1
0,"must note sever year belaru activ call resumpt broad dialogu intern security, aim overcom current contradict relat among states. dialogu would enabl return build effect global order base multilateralism.",1
0,"need make progress mani areas. alreadi know want go, get alway complic part. want recogn work carri secretari gener reform develop system, contribut state made resolut propos improvement. however, undeni time lose, must build knowledg procedur work expert effici want respond commit charter obtain result peac security, right development.",1
1,"awar serious complex problem relat neighbor commit resolv exclus dialogue, take consider interest interest parties.",1
1,"somalia, govern peopl work close togeth mitig worst effect covid-19 pandemic. like govern across world, priorit health citizen much possibl save lives. direct medic provis consistent, updat effect public health information, govern utmost keep popul safe possible. covid-19 cases, rise quickli earli stage pandemic, fallen steadili result government’ swift actions.",1
1,"surinam focu strongli gener invest busi opportunities. mainli reason administr develop act widest implement sdg number 17, promot facilit clean corrupt free public privat partnership  ppp .",1
1,"took us 44 year sinc seychelles’ independ attain qualiti life enjoy covid-19, 4 month covid-19 paralys tourism industri much economy.",1
0,"pandemic, highest emphasi place food production. time, taken measur ensur adequ suppli nutrit people. special arrang made keep industri run proper market agricultur product industri output full complianc health guidelines. consequently, health sector economi still compar better shape. despit covid-19-induc stagnat global industri outputs, gdp regist growth rate 5.24 per cent, expect 7 per centin next fiscal year.",1
2,"despit obviou evidence, joint efforts, collabor cooper amongst nation exchang among special scientif institut manag face problem previous fulli unknown, oblig us seek prompt respons order allevi effect disease.",1
0,report also highlight challeng face term health sector particularli rate non-communic diseas cases. seven ten death solomon island caus non-communic diseases. remain largest singl caus death country.,1
0,"anoth action remov doubt may convict commit fight climat chang area role play head pro tempor secretariat ibero-american summit period two year motto “innov sustain development- object 2030”. joint declar adopt environ minist environ confer 16 septemb last, one high point presid allow us build environment agenda among 22 member state ibero-american conference.",1
1,"also hope, because, ever, seen flourish valu solidar empathy, sincer recognit health healthcar professionals, sens civil respons popul favor common interest, well increas ecolog awareness.",1
0,"tonga continu recogn import ocean-clim nexus, continu note grave concern detriment impact climat chang marin environment.",1
1,"indeed, need recal climat chang devast effect populations, particularli increas poverty, rural exodus, social exclus intercommun tension natur resources.",1
0,"nonetheless, pandem inevit set back development aspirations. resourc redirect fight pandem set back effort provid housing, health care, water sanit educ people.",1
2,"coronaviru continu spread across world, hit one countri other, infect million people, take hundr thousand lives. moreover, covid-19 caus widespread fear future. pandem health crisis, also humanitarian secur crisis, accentu pre-exist structur problem within among nations, coronaviru assail commun around world drove global economi downturn whose long-term effect cannot yet fulli assessed. human impact lockdown suspens social econom activ disproportion felt vulner countri groups, includ indigen peoples, ethnic minorities, person disabilities, women children. inadequ health system  gap social protect  structur inequ  environment degrad  climat crisis: pandem show us fragil world. unit nation lead respons health crisis, also expand mean lifesav humanitarian assist establish instrument rapid respons socio-econom impact.",1
2,"part multilater disarma diplomacy, sweden — togeth 15 non-nuclear-weapon state — continu pursu stockholm initi nuclear disarmament, aim contribut success npt review conference.",1
1,youth contin — 60 per cent popul 24 year age — immens natur resourc vital repres tremend potenti term econom social transformation. time therefor come serious look africa light.,1
2,"regard, reiter urgent need reform organ achiev un secur council attend better represent peoples, nation continents.",1
1,"“in regard, fit recal debt alreadi major handicap pandem accentuated. african develop bank noted, nearli 50 million addit peopl could risk fall extrem poverti africa 2020. moreover, africa’ loss result pandem reach sever hundr billion dollar period 2020 2021. mani countri could forc borrow, aggrav debt burden.",1
1,"stronger multilater essenti want build fair, peac societies, young peopl live dignity, women opportun men, minor vulner group protected.",1
0,"presently, one activ laboratori confirm case covid-19 infection, despit re-open border june 1st, daili commerci flight north america europe, attempt earn revenu vital tourism sector protect live livelihoods.",1
1,"reduct food loss wast underpin achiev sustain develop three dimens — economic, social environmental. food- relat sustain practic innov solut instrument number major delic issues, poverti alleviation, hunger erad human health. san marino deem crucial curb food loss waste, sustain product consumpt practices. order achiev this, must recognis collect relev issues, emphasis need immedi effect action. why, togeth princip andorra, san marino 2019 sponsor resolut design 29 septemb intern day awar food loss waste.",1
0,"today, despit current circumst aris covid-19 pandemic, impos us restrict movement procedur appropri juncture, possibl commun amongst virtual feel togeth thank almost unlimit possibl brought new technolog servic mankind.",1
0,"syria, sustain peac achiev polit solut line resolut 2254  2015 . sweden recent pledg 96 million dollar crisi respons brussel 4 conference.",1
1,"reform secur council key aspect process transform could complet without fundament reform. end, kingdom eswatini wish reiter africa’ call perman membership secur council accord ezulwini consensus.",1
0,"time, invest strengthen state govern structur creat environ conduc growth. mean continu combat system corruption, improv public financi manag systems, strengthen provinci district level governance.",1
0,"covid-19 pandem come chang realiti prioriti humanity, consequ human life. pandem made evid inequ world exacerb them. unfortunately, conting measur face pandem increas social econom gap within countries. intern community, whole, must provid global coordin respons support nation need, help creat condit stronger economi inclus societies.",1
1,"firm action also need order tackl climat environment emergencies. rise sea level catastroph weather events, longer afford ignor risk climat change. duti futur gener turn glasgow cop26 success achiev goal pari agreement.",1
2,sid made heroic effort shore job unemploy grow provid social safeti net peopl respons covid-19 limit capac resourc have.,1
1,today celebr first time anniversari would like take opportun urg join us — done alreadi — aim rais awar import reduc food loss wast contribut action sustain development.,1
0,"need concurr revitalis gener assembl make genuin attempt reform secur council. intern governance, ever before, need representative, inclusive, open. need take account wide spectrum view acknowledg rich divers global community. un secretary-general’ abil take current futur challeng also depend polit financi commit member states. thu essenti continu support.",1
0,"context, 75th session, turkmenistan intend intensifi work elabor intern legal instrument un field stabil reliabl energi transit.",1
0,"however, econom financi indic countri sever neg consequ covid-19 call question time implement sustain develop goals, particularli develop countries.",1
1,"let assur zimbabw continu implement measur battl covid-19 pandemic. institut phase lockdowns, follow world health organ guidelines, govern also provid zwl$18 billion  approxim us$720 million  econom stimulu package.",1
1,"socio-econom stimulu packag worth $2 billion releas ensur econom stability, tackl employ issues, ensur macroeconom fiscal stability. social relief measur cover nearli 5 million people, half population.",1
1,"consequently, south-south cooperation, exclus north-south relations, explor expand articul promot collect econom busi interests.",1
1,"session coincid seventy-fifth anniversari creation unit nations. opportun review organization’ work explor way develop organ becom effect flexibl order meet aspir peopl world peace, security, democraci development, embodi principl purpos charter unit nations.",1
2,owe support un member state abl reviv strengthen global water agenda past decades.,1
1,"success depend strengthen institutions, nation international, includ work scientists, innovators, creators. question funding. posit human valu citizen govern invest institutions, must accountable.",1
0,"need unit nation 4.0, foundat valu intact vision incorpor immens technolog chang way, make human, democrat social inclusive.",1
1,"azerbaijan taken time necessari prevent measur stop spread virus. azerbaijan’ attain millennium develop goal progress toward achiev sustain develop goal enabl us conduct effect fight pandemic. healthcar infrastructur azerbaijan develop renov significantly, almost 700 hospit healthcar facil built complet renov past 17 years.",1
2,"pandem expos vulner today’ world highlight broad divid nation global develop efforts, high level poverti inequality, rage climat chang continu discrimin elderly, poor communities, women girls, erod social cohesion.",1
2,"let' make lesson covid-19 basi action future. like 75 year ago, lesson two world war led univers commit among nation solv disput peac work together.",1
